---
layout: post
title: What’s Old is New Again
date: 2015-07-07T14:53:12-04:00
excerpt: There once was a blog called Tech Know-how. It was a team blog, and it ran on Drupal.
---

There once was a blog called Tech Know-how. It was a team blog, and it
ran on Drupal. This was back in the days when the Emory Libraries were
just getting started with Content Management Systems for websites, and
Tech Know-how (TKH) was one of the first Drupal sites that went up.
Since then, the Libraries have been through two or three redesigns and
at least one platform migration. TKH had fallen into disuse and
disrepair, and (perhaps due to changes in leadership or a shift in
focus) our team no longer used it to blog about our work and discoveries
or document best practices.  The site wasn’t worth upgrading, and so it
had to be shutdown for security reasons.

Around this time, I had decided I wanted to try to set up a personal
site on GitHub pages using Jekyll, and I thought at least some of my
contributions to TKH were worth saving. So, I created this site and
migrated my posts. I also decided to cross-post some of my content from
the [Networking
Belfast](http://disc.library.emory.edu/networkingbelfast/) project blog,
because I don’t know how long thep project site will be maintained, and
I'd like to preserve and control my own content. I wanted to keep the
content, but I also thought it would be less intimidating not to start
with a brand new, empty site. What I did not expect (but perhaps should
have) is that migrating a large, diverse set of content (some of it
fairly technical) is a pretty good way to put a new technology like
Jekyll through its paces. It also shows how far we have come in the
years-- the tools now available for displaying code snippets and
technical details are so much cleaner and better than the janky
formatting I had to use to get queries or code to display semi-sensibly
in Drupal.

Going through my old blog posts provides an interesting tour of the
technologies I’ve worked with over the past several years: preliminary
experiments with [Python and FUSE](/2009/01/16/fedorafs-python-fuse/)
back in 2009, when I was still learning Python but bored with the Django
tutorial; we’ve long since replaced Trac with Pivotal Tracker for
project management; PHP, now generally only still used in legacy
projects; my discovery of the [image server Djatoka](/2009/07/14/or09
-adore-djatoka/), which we’ve been using for years and now are looking
to replace. Back in 2011 doing development on a Macbook was novel
enough for me that I wrote up [documentation on how I set up my work
environment](/2011/06/17/setting-macbook-python-development-eg-
eulfedora-or-genrepo-demo/), but now I do almost all my development on
OSX and only occasionally go back to my Linux workstation. To my mind,
the more interesting posts in the long term are some of the write-ups
from conference sessions (which is good encouragement to do that again,
the next time I have occasion to attend a conference!) and the
experimental posts. Those experiments include one on [using automated
name-recognition to generate a map](/2013/02/01 /mapping- places-in-
around-the-world- in-80-days/) (which was useful again just recently),
and my little [experiment with archival Finding Aid
data](/2010/05/12/graph- correspondents-4-irish-finding- aids/) that
eventually led to the [Belfast Group
Poetry|_Networks_](http://belfastgroup.digitalscholarship.emory.edu)
project.

The technical landscape has changed just a bit in the last several
years; it seems that projects tend to have better documentation, and we
now have tremendous resources like all the questions and solutions
[Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/), so that you can often just
search for an error message and find a solution. But I know I’ve often
found solutions or ideas on someone’s personal blog or site, which
should perhaps encourage all of us to write and share more often about
the cool technologies we’re working with and document our clever (or
occasionally hacky) solutions to tricky problems.

Tech Know-how is dead. Long live tech know-how!