---
layout: post
title: Really Old Eudora Email, Preservation, Parsing Woes, and Hidden Bits
created: 1249943260
categories: digital-archives email parsing eudora rushdie mbox mboxo
---
<p>I&rsquo;m currently digging into more depth on the files in the digital component of the <a href="http://marbl.library.emory.edu/fc-salman-rushdie-papers.html">Salman Rushdie collection</a>. In particular, I&rsquo;m parsing through old email files so that we can present them as separate documents even though the computer&rsquo;s file system stores them in two big files. Working with these ancient (by computer standards) email files brings back some of the wacky, wily history of email storage.</p>

<p>Back in 1996, Salman Rushdie was accessing his email with <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eudora_(e-mail_client)">Eudora</a>. Heck, everyone was: It was the best Mac email client available at the time. Now, Eudora stored its user&rsquo;s mail in <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mbox">mbox</a> format, stringing them all together with a &ldquo;<code>From </code>&rdquo; line to mark the beginning of each new mail. And there begins the craziness.</p>

<p>See, if every email starts with the magic string &ldquo;<code>From </code>&rdquo;, then the job of an email parser is easy: Watch for that &ldquo;<code>From </code>&rdquo; line, and start a new message wherever you see it. The problem is that if the email user actually wrote a line that starts with &ldquo;<code>From </code>&rdquo;, it looks like the beginning of a new message, even if it&rsquo;s just the word &ldquo;From&rdquo; inside of an email. It turns out it&rsquo;s extremely difficult to reliably tell the difference between the two. You can make a very well-educated guess and probably be right, but then there&rsquo;s that one email in a million where you end up wrong, and users get mad.</p>

<p>The Eudora folks recognized this, of course. Most developers realized it sooner or later &mdash; usually as soon as one of the developers wrote an email to a friend describing the format and their parser broke. Some software worked around the problem by carefully modifying the message so that it would never include a &ldquo;<code>From </code>&rdquo; at the beginning of a line, and then modifying the message on the way back out so that nobody would notice the change. The Eudora folks took a different tack: They just stored the message offset and size in an external binary index. If I were to guess, I&rsquo;d say they probably were already keeping that index for quick loading of the subject and sender and other metadata. As a result, they really just weren&rsquo;t affected by the weird parsing problem, because they weren&rsquo;t actually parsing the mbox data per se.</p>

<p>The end result of this is that while the Eudora mail file walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, it is in fact a <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Ugly_Duckling">baby swan</a>, and as soon as you try to parse it like a duck, the metaphor breaks down. Wait, that didn&rsquo;t work. When you try to apply, for instance, Python&rsquo;s standard <a href="http://docs.python.org/library/mailbox.html">mailbox library</a> to it, it breaks up mails in the middle of messages.</p>

<p>So I mentioned that Eudora stores message boundaries in a table of contents file. That file is a big binary file with a single fixed-size record for each mail. This is great if you need a quick C application for moving between messages (and in 1996, compute cycles were expensive), but not great if you want to actually understand what&rsquo;s going on. There&rsquo;s not much public documentation of those files, either. If I could crack that key, I figured, the email boundaries <em>should</em> be reliable.</p>

<p>A few people have <a href="http://alf.uib.no/eudora/kens/toc.html">reverse-engineered</a> Eudora TOC files, but apparently the files changed from version to version and platform to platform, so those documents turned out to be a dead end for me. After some searching, though, I stumbled upon the <a href="http://eudora2unix.sourceforge.net/">Eudora2Unix</a> project for transforming old Eudora email files to more modern storage formats. Jackpot! Well, sort of: I couldn&rsquo;t get the programs to run quite right for some reason, but the code did have binary structure definitions. And as fortune would have it, they included the right structures for this particular version of Eudora, so parsing the files became a snap.</p>

<p>But it gets more interesting from there. See, when I used the TOC files to parse the mbox data, I got significantly fewer messages than when I had just read the mbox file directly. In digging into the data I found that entire messages in the mbox file were entirely skipped over in the TOC. As best as I can guess, that particular version of Eudora didn&rsquo;t actually delete old emails from the disk when the user hit the delete key. Instead of deleting the mails, it just removed them from the table of contents. They disappeared from the user interface, and the user was none the wiser that they were still sitting on the disk in the mbox file.</p>

<p>So that&rsquo;s where we are today. I&rsquo;ve got these extra messages, completely invisible in the user interface, but lurking inside the data waiting to be discovered. I can&rsquo;t talk much about what&rsquo;s in them right now, but we&rsquo;ll be figuring out which ones we can share when the collection opens up.</p>

<p>And now I just have to find a good standard XML metadata format to stick these email headers in so that we can reposit them in our <a href="http://www.fedora-commons.org/">Fedora</a> repository and search them with <a href="http://defxws2006.cvt.dk/fedoragsearch/">gsearch</a> and <a href="http://lucene.apache.org/solr/">solr</a>. Exciting stuff, this collection.</p>

<p>And man, we&rsquo;ve come a long way with data formats.</p>
