---
layout: post
title: Drupal upgrade notes
created: 1244155276
categories: drupal sysadmin
---
<p>During our upgrade of the Drupal sites today we ran into a number of issues worth documenting for future upgrades.</p><h2>Maintenance mode</h2><p>We suspect that the drush scripts responsible for placing Drupal sites in maintenance mode were not working properly, as we were not able to see an outage notice on the staging Techknowhow site during the upgrade. We also saw evidence that the database updates had not been properly applied and that the content access permissions had not been updated. We instead had to manually take each site offline and then apply the database update scripts and permissions updates.</p><p>During the production upgrade, we had a sense that taking the site offline might have been where the script failed, so we manually took the Techknowhow site offline just after the script had begun to upgrade the other production site (Digital Programs). In the production TKH upgrade, we did not see the same failure to update the database schema or to update content access permissions, indicating that our theory may have been correct.</p><h2>Module selection</h2><p>For the most part, the update script successfully cached and then restored the selection of modules to be enabled for each site, with a few exceptions. On the production TKH site, which contains our most complex selection of modules, the LDAP, WYSIWYG, and Tagadelic modules were not re-enabled after the upgrade. All of the staging sites did have LDAP successfully re-enabled.</p><p>Perhaps there is a correlation between the failure to re-enable LDAP and our manual intervention in taking the production TKH site offline? It is unclear.</p>
