---
layout: post
title: Keeping Django Apps flexible for subURLs
created: 1250011291
categories: django
---
<p>As a Django novice, I struggled a bit with how to get my django app to be flexible enough to render correctly when not installed under a root domain.</p><p>When constructing internal links to an application these would work fine in development or if installed under a site root domain (say http://mysite.com/) but I found that as I deployed the application to a staging environment not under the site root (say http://mysite.com/myapp/) that anything in the app that formed an internal URL no longer worked.</p><p>After running around a bit I finnally understood what I needed to do and wanted to pass that on.</p><p>Two things every Django app developer needs to be aware of in dealing with this are the {% url %} template tag and the request.META['SCRIPT_NAME'] variable.</p><p><strong>The url Template Tag</strong></p><p><a href="http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/templates/builtins/#url" target="_blank">The url tag</a> provides a way for Django to build appropriate links based on the application install.&nbsp; In truth it's pretty straight forward and doesn't require much explanation from me so just read the documentation. It took me awhile to find this as I didn't see it in the tutorials or in many of the Django template exampls I ran across so I was incorrectly creating modified or hacked internal links in my templates.&nbsp; If you use this in all your templates, internal links should work just fine no matter what your site install.</p><p>In practice this tag works fine though it requires a bit more knowledge of an application than I think many template designers should have.</p><p><strong>The SCRIPT_NAME variable</strong></p><p>It is important to note that this variable is only available when using mod_wsgi although I believe there is a hack for mod_python users.&nbsp; </p><p>When constructing an internal URL inside a view method it's vital to read the request.META['SCRIPT_NAME'] variable to allow the app to load when not under root.&nbsp; In the example of http://mysite.com/myapp/ this would return the '/myapp' portion of the url.&nbsp; When constructing urls for things like HTTPRedirects and such this, using this will allow proper routing of the URL.</p>
