---
layout: post
title: ! 'Drupal Modules:  Drop Tables on Uninstall'
created: 1237855371
categories: drupal drop tables modules
---
<p>You will need to be able to do this if the structure of the table needs to change while you are developing the module.</p><p>To create a module that can drop its database tables when it is uninstalled; create the .install file with the bellow functions.</p><p>The important part is that the word module be replaced by the module name in the function names and function parameters.</p><p> <br />If you create the .install file like this before you enable the module for the first time, all you have to do to uninstall and drop the tables is:<br />1.  Disable the module.<br />2. Go to the Uninstall tab at the top of the modules page.<br />3. Select the module you want to completely uninstall.  This includes all data.<br /><br />However, If you did not include the module_uninstall function before you enabled the module for the first time you will not be able to drop the tables through the uninstall process until  you take these additional steps:<br />1. Disable the module.<br />2. In the database perform this query: select * from system where name='moduleName';<br />3. Delete the record (previous step) from the system table (It may also work to just set the status to "-1"). <br />4. Re-enable the module.<br /><br />From now on the tables will drop when the module is uninstalled.</p><pre>&lt;?php<br />function module_schema() {<br />  $schema['tas_queue'] = array<br />  (<br />    'fields' =&gt; array<br />    (<br />      'id' =&gt; array<br />      (<br />        'type' =&gt; 'serial',<br />        'size' =&gt; 'big',<br />        'unsigned' =&gt; TRUE,<br />        'not null' =&gt; TRUE <br />      )...<br /><br /><br />  return $schema;<br />}<br /><br />function module_install() {<br /><br />  // Create my tables.<br />  drupal_install_schema('module');<br />}<br /><br />function module_uninstall() {<br />  // Drop my tables.<br />  drupal_uninstall_schema('module');<br />}</pre><p> </p><p><a href="http://drupal.org/node/146843">More Info On the Schema API</a></p><p><a href="http://drupal.org/node/150215">Info On Altering Schemas Without Dropping the Tables </a>(I have not tried this yet)</p>
