---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report Oct 12 - Oct 23 2009
created: 1256312474
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed:</strong>&nbsp; 12.5</p><p><strong>Average Velocity:&nbsp;</strong> 25 sp/itr</p><p><strong>Story Points by Project:</strong></p><ul><li>GDE&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 4</li><li>ETD&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 3</li><li>PID Manager&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 2.5</li><li>Slave Voyages&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1</li><li>TechKnowHow Site&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1</li><li>Drupal Sites&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 0.5</li><li>Rushdie&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 0.5</li></ul><p><strong>Scott's Notes:</strong> We implemented very few features this iteration and many of the developers spent a significant time either planning or ramping up on projects.&nbsp; In particular:</p><ul><li>User feedback sessions and clarifying planning for the Dec 1st deliverable impacted the Rushdie Project.</li><li>Ramping up on Digital Workflow application and eReserves took up the equivalent of 1 FTE.</li></ul><p>Overall the two factors with the highest impact on our velocity and productivity continue to be legacy code issues and inadequate planning.&nbsp; The issues with code range from poor engineering or implementation to varying languages and technology stacks.&nbsp; The engineering issues stem from a combination of very old code that has grown beyond what it was engineered for;&nbsp; Poorly implemented code that was either a learning project for those involved for never designed to do what it was asked to do; or too high a diversity of code where engineers without rescent experience in a codebase or language have to shift quickly to it.&nbsp; In terms of planning we're in a very dire state both in terms of understanding what needs lay ahead of us and in maintaining a plan that updates where we are from iteration to iteration in a way that lets us understand what still needs to be done.</p><p><strong>What worked:</strong></p><ul><li>Having management step in to clarify and negotiate priorities was very helpful across several critical projects.</li><li>Direct user testing was very helpful.</li><li>Developers pushing planners to recognize time contraints compared to deliverables is helping to clarify where we're going with a project.</li><li>Being able to talk in points, velocity and deliverable dates helps dramatically framing expectations.</li><li>Multiple developers working on a project together is very important for the overall health of the project and useful for breaking through blocks.</li><li>Our collaboration with Systems Engineers is improving and resulting in easier deploys and better cross department understanding.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't work:</strong></p><ul><li>We arent good at taking into account ramping up into new projects, doing studies or the impact of extensive planning that involved developers.</li><li>Legacy code bases that are poorly engineered have dramatic impact on our ability to be successful or further support or extend these products.</li><li>Technical disconnect between developers and stake holders makes it very difficult to plan effecitvely as impact of requests is often unclear.</li><li>We're drifting close to one developer per project again and this is jepordizing our ability to create sustainable systems.</li><li>Our planning is drifting dramatically again and we're often only identifying priorities and plans just in time for development.&nbsp;</li><li>Turn arounds between deliverable dates and development requests is too small and doesn't allow for testing or bug fixes.</li></ul><p><strong>What we'll do different:</strong></p><ul><li>We should use the 75/50% rule in reducing our estimated velocity when additional planning, review or other tasks come in as part of developer duties.</li><li>We should try to include more direct user testing in development and project plans.</li></ul><p><strong>Tasking for Next Iteration<br /></strong></p><ul><li>Rushdie (1.5 FTE): Ben (100%), Pete (50%)</li><li>ETD(05 FTE): Rebecca (50%)</li><li>GHC (0.5 FTE): Rebecca (50%)</li><li>DigWF (1 FTE):&nbsp; Alex (50%), Sari (50%)</li><li>Voyages (0.5 FTE):&nbsp; Alex(50%)</li><li>PID Manager&nbsp; (0.5 FTE):&nbsp; Sari (50%)</li></ul>
