---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report Nov 23 - Dec 18 2009
created: 1261150285
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed:</strong> 29.5&nbsp; sp</p>
<p><strong>Average Velocity:&nbsp;</strong> 25.3 sp/itr</p><p><strong>Story Points Completed by Project:</strong></p><ul><li>Rushdie&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 9.5</li><li>Reserves Direct&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 5</li><li>Electronic Thesis and Dissertation&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 4.5</li><li>Digitization Workflow&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 2.5</li><li>Global Health Chronicles&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 2.5</li><li>Slave Voyages&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 2.5</li><li>Drupal Sites&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 2</li><li>EUL/Django Core&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 0.5</li><li>PID Manager&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 0.5</li></ul><p><strong>Scott's Comments:</strong>&nbsp; I continue to observe that the largest single contributor we seem to have to increased performance is adequate planning and I think this iteration again displays that.&nbsp; We had good planning in Rushdie, Reserves, ETD, DigWF and GHC and all saw significant progress and productivity.&nbsp; We still struggle with advanced planning in general and our planning is spotty on some projects still but where we see it improve we seem to see a direct and measurable benefit in productivity.&nbsp;&nbsp; The feedback bullets below sum up most of my other input so I will let those speak for themselves.</p><p><strong>What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>People other than develoipers who show up for stand-ups are asked for input as well.&nbsp; We should continue to do this.</li><li>Student workers attending stand-ups seem to work plugging them into the process but primarily just the opportunity for checking in with senior developers is helpful.</li><li>The level of communication stand-ups bring is very effective.</li><li>We consistently see better performance where there is better communication it's one of the more vital elements of overall project health.</li><li>Regular Best practices meeting is firming up our process and increases our common practice and understanding.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Students could be more effectively brought into our process and workflow.&nbsp; Ramping up on Trac and Agile processes can be daunting at first particularly for people who haven't used previous.</li><li>When we have development projects staffed only by students without a senior technical lead project discipline and engineering discipline tends to slip.</li><li>Performance consistent suffers where communication is poor.</li><li>Crosstraining and collaborative development wasn't as good this iteration.&nbsp; We continue to have concerns that domain knowlege for individual applications rest in too small a number of developers.</li><li>Too Long term comittments of individual developers to specific projects is a problem.</li></ul><p><strong>What We'll Do Differently</strong></p><ul><li>We'll try to make specific efforts to having students come to stand-ups next year at least as time allows.&nbsp; Even occassional attendence seems helpful.</li><li>Have a discussion after the first of the year about how to best incorporate students.</li><li>Early mentoring of new programming staff (students and regular staff) </li><li>Every Developer Iteration Meeting we demo one product with new features or fixes to the other developers. (~15min)</li></ul><p><strong>Other Notes</strong></p><ul><li>Queue up a Discussion next Best Practices meeting for what the rest of "Iteration Friday" is for developers.</li></ul><p>Staffing for this Iteration is too varied because of the Christmas and New Years holiday.&nbsp; I will forgoe the normal % FTE and just names.&nbsp; Strategists should touch base with individual developers for expectations of work that needs to be done.</p><ul><li>Voyages/ETD: Alex (Vacation, small development)</li><li>Rushdie: Ben/Pete (Whatever they can given short holiday)</li><li>DigWF: Sari </li></ul><p>Rebecca Vacation Whole Iteration</p>
