---
layout: post
title: ! 'Iteration Report: Aug 17 - Aug 28'
created: 1251471571
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>SP Completed:</strong> 30.5 sp</p><p><strong>Avg Velocity:</strong> ~37sp/itr</p><p><strong>What worked</strong></p><ul><li>Public placement of iteration board is very effective at passive communication.</li><li>Ability to just drop by for stand-ups and iteration planning meetings is effective.</li><li>Better uptake of iteration process by strategists/planners.</li><li>Metrics very effective at informing the business plan and prioritizing work.</li><li>Some planners are more present and this leads to better communication.</li><li>Not being the solo developer is very helpful for developers.</li></ul><p><strong>What didn't work</strong></p><ul><li>Uptake of iteration process is still somewhat patchy with some planners.</li><li>Communication to stake-holders outside digital systems could be better.</li><li>Remote planners/strategists have difficulty engaging in the iteration meetings.</li><li>Trying to do epic stories is a problem, we could break down user stories better.</li><li>Managing user expectations is a problem and can sometimes take up time and makes deliverables unclear.</li><li>New staff are under-tasked.&nbsp; Scott is too concervative in early tasking.</li><li>R&amp;D process doesn't fit well with the Iteration Process.</li><li>Interactions are getting to the point that we could benefit more from consistant dependency managment.</li></ul><p><strong>What we'll do differently.</strong></p><ul><li>Use trac to update and put all development plans there.</li><li>Expand the list of invitees to the iteration planning meetings.</li><li>Focus on deployed software as a means of communcation and testing.</li><li>schedule a meeting in the next few iterations to discuss dependency management.</li></ul><p><strong>Scott's Notes:</strong>&nbsp; The iteration itself went pretty smoothly.&nbsp; Our lower completed SP total this iteration is primarily due to a number of User Stories that are 90% done but not yet fully complete so I expect our Completed SP total to be higher next iteration.&nbsp; This is similar to the spike seen in last iteration's completed SP total and the overall velocity from the last 3 iterations keeps us unchanged (with rounding).</p><p>Generally speaking the process seems to be working as more and more people are coming on board with it and it might be a bit too early to say that but I think I'm starting to see some cultural change for the bettter.&nbsp; Knock on wood.</p><h2>Staffing for Next Iteration</h2><ul><li><strong>dWrangler - Projects: &lt; 0.5 FTE</strong><br />Scott (30%)</li></ul><ul><li><strong>dWrangler - SysEngineering: 0.5 FTE</strong><br />Sari (50%)</li></ul><ul><li><strong>ETD: &gt; 0.5 FTE</strong><br />Alex (50%); Rebecca (10%)</li></ul><ul><li><strong>GHC: ~ 1 FTE</strong><br />Rebecca (90%)</li></ul><ul><li><strong>PID Manager: 1.5 FTE</strong><br />Sari (50%); Jason (100%)</li></ul><ul><li><strong>Rushdie: 1.5 FTE</strong><br />Ben (100%); Pete (50%)</li></ul><ul><li><strong>Slave Voyages: 1.5 FTE</strong><br />Smita (100%); Alex (50%)</li></ul>
