---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report Nov 23 - Dec 5 2009
created: 1259942636
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed:</strong> 20.5&nbsp; sp</p>
<p><strong>Average Velocity:&nbsp;</strong> 22.6 sp/itr</p>
<p><strong>Story Points Completed by Projects:</strong></p><ul><li><strong>Drupal Sites</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 0.5</li><li><strong>PID Manager&nbsp;</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp; 1.5</li><li><strong>Reserves Direct</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1.5</li><li><strong>Rushdie</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1.5</li><li><strong>Global Health Chronicles</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 2.5</li><li><strong>Slave Voyages</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 3</li><li><strong>dWrangler</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 4</li><li><strong>Electronic Thesis and Dissertation</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 6</li></ul><p><strong>Scott's Comment:</strong>&nbsp; Overall the Iteration went well.&nbsp; With vacations and the Thanksgiving Break we accomplished less than a typical Iteration as would be expected but we continue to see our Velocity improve. (Reminder that Velocity is the average of SP completed for the last 3 Iterations) Our planning continues to be a passinate topic of discussion but in my opinion those discussions are making progress toward a common understanding.&nbsp; We're bringing issues to the table in a spirited manner more frequently and starting debates on process that I think may result in better work in the longrun but I acknowlge that it makes for some difficult times right now as we negotiate this process. </p><p><strong>What Worked:</strong></p><ul><li>Stand-Up meetings seemed more clear.</li><li>More initiative on the part of developers.</li><li>Overall more people are coming to the table to expose needs and hash out concerns.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work:</strong></p><ul><li>Concerns that planning isn't reflected as well in the overall metrics.</li><li>Communication on external projects are particularly difficult in terms of defining goals and determining how successful our outcomes are.&nbsp; </li><li>Setup time when switching to completely different projects can cause a lot of inefficiency in terms of setting up depdendencies and a proper development environment.</li><li>Lack of standard infrastructes and ownership of some systems infrastructure causes inefficency.</li><li>Lack of high level decisions impacting projects. </li></ul><p><strong>What We'll Do Different:</strong></p><ul><li>Continue to push for standardization and staging/development environment.</li><li>We will use White Cards on projects to reflect planning, estimated in story points.&nbsp; We will determine how to report these and more information will be forthcoming.</li></ul><p><strong>Staffing for This Iteration:</strong></p><ul><li>Voyages: Alex (50%)</li><li>ETD: Alex (50%)</li><li>Rushdie: Ben (100%), Pete (50%)</li><li>eReserves: Rebecca (50%)*</li><li>GHC:&nbsp; Sari (50%)</li><li>DigWF: Sari (50%)</li></ul><p>* Rebecca on Vacation for part of Iteration.</p>
