---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report Aug 31 - Sept 11
created: 1252939324
categories: reports report
---
<p><strong>SP Completed:</strong> 48</p><p><strong>Average Velocity:</strong> 39 sp/itr</p><ul><li>Web Maintanence&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 4</li><li>PID Manager&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 5.5</li><li>dWrangler (prototype)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 9</li><li>Rushdie&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 11</li><li>Slave Voyages&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 16</li><li>ETD 2.5</li></ul><p><strong>Scott's Comments:</strong>&nbsp; We had a very high SP completion number this iteration, but as stated at the end of last iteration report these are primarily due to stories that weren't fully completed and carried over into this iteration.&nbsp; Last Iteration we completed around 30 sp, but even with that the overall Average velocity has been increasing slowly for the last 5 Iterations overall and very dramatically since we moved to complete development plans.</p><p>Our biggest problem right now, as it has been since the beginning is a lack of planning on many projects.&nbsp; The planning situation in some corners is dire enough for me to be considerned about the health of some projects and I'll seek guidance from Joan and Senior management on this.&nbsp; Staffing levels remain the same in next iteration.</p><p><strong>What Worked:</strong></p><ul><li>Developers conviening planning meetings before an interation planning meeting was very helpful.</li><li>Conferences with developers help solidify the specifics of our agile process with planners. (What are pink cards, and those kinds of questions.)</li><li>Rough estimates during planning meetings with project manager very helpful to keep everyone in the loop and uncovers assumptions.</li><li>Initial looks at Trac Roadmaps seem very helpful to Project Planners to communicate progress and form release notes as well as communicate other project information.</li><li>Pair programming is very helpful in getting developers ramped up in projects.</li><li>Developing things along common lines is very helpful in terms of repeating success.</li></ul><p><strong>What didn't work:</strong></p><ul><li>Disruption of Systesm/Software work area caused us to lose some productivity.</li><li>Some release plans are still not coming together and on some projects developers don't have clear picture of deliverables or requirements for a project.</li><li>The time developers have to spend on project planning is taking away from programing time and impacting deliverables.</li><li>Planners sending conflicting requirements and general lack of coordination of delierables by planners is causing tasks to drift and take longer or be reworked.</li><li>Lack of coordination between develoepers on implementations needs to be improved so we can merge and release software better.</li><li>We continue not to have a clear picture of upcoming development needs and it's making it difficult to plan our development for upcomming iterations.</li></ul><p><strong>What we'll try differently:</strong></p><ul><li>Start to engadge project planners with dWrangler more and Trac Roadmaps as a central HUB for tracking progress.</li><li>Add Project Planners to Trac so they can edit roadmap.</li><li>Communicate better between developers when working on same codebase.&nbsp; (Design notes? Stand-up comments? something else?)</li></ul><h2>Staffing for Next Iteration</h2>
<ul><li><strong>dWrangler - Projects: &lt; 0.5 FTE</strong><br />Scott (30%)</li></ul>
<ul><li><strong>dWrangler - SysEngineering: 0.5 FTE</strong><br />Sari (50%)</li></ul>
<ul><li><strong>ETD: &gt; 0.5 FTE</strong><br />Alex (50%); Rebecca (10%)</li></ul>
<ul><li><strong>GHC: ~ 1 FTE</strong><br />Rebecca (90%)</li></ul>
<ul><li><strong>PID Manager: 1.5 FTE</strong><br />Sari (50%); Jason (100%)</li></ul>
<ul><li><strong>Rushdie: 1.5 FTE</strong><br />Ben (100%); Pete (50%)</li></ul>
<ul><li><strong>Slave Voyages: 1.5 FTE</strong><br />Smita (100%); Alex (50%)</li></ul>
