---
layout: post
title: MARBL Publications Inventory DB
created: 1247161421
categories: marbl
---
<p>I had a discussion with Naomi and Ade today regarding a project she is interesting in going into development.</p><p><strong>Summary</strong></p><p>The project is a port of the current data at http://cti.library.emory.edu/dbman which is a simple list database of uncataloged publications owned by MARBL.&nbsp; The project would need a basic database with editing features and a simple front end of with list views and record detail views.&nbsp; Data currently existing in two seperate locatl databases would be normalized into a single data-structure created by MARBL and existing data migrated and merged into the new structure after being provided with a data map between the two.</p><p><strong>Outline of project</strong></p><ul><li>MARBL provides normalized Datastructure</li><li>MARBL provides data mapping between old and normalized structure</li></ul><p>Developers would then:</p><ul><li>Install Database and framework.</li><li>Create and run data migration scripts.</li><li>Provide a simple editing interface.</li><li>Provide simple list and record detail views</li><li>Provide basic search functionality for ANY, ALL and EXACT searching.</li><li>Provide chain sorting on list items in a list view.</li></ul><p><strong>Assumptions</strong></p><ul><li>Can create a standard data format.</li><li>Standard CRUD permissions are fine, no need for fine permissions.</li><li>Data can map from old to new structure directly.</li><li>No need for calculations or statistics on data.</li><li>No need to restrict access to list or detail views.</li></ul><p><strong>'Nice to have' additions if possible</strong></p><ul><li>Wildcard searching in addition to above.</li><li>Clone record capability to easily enter new records with similar data.</li><li>Auto complete on fields and such when entering data or building searches.</li></ul><p><strong>Rough technical Notes:</strong></p><p>This project seems pretty straight forward and I recommend a Django development as it will provide almost all the data editing features we need.&nbsp; It will also provide easy creation of list, detail, searching and filtering needed for the project.&nbsp; Additionally it will provide easy access to 'enhanced' things like RSS feeds and other serialization if needed.&nbsp; </p><p>Were the project to increase in terms of requirements this also provides the most flexible and scalable solution.</p><p>This implementation would fit within current systems architecture and would require not known additional assets.</p><p>Given the rough outline above my initial estimate would be 21 story points for this project.</p>
