---
layout: post
title: Notes on Drupal Upgade Meeting
created: 1242322558
categories: sysadmin drupal
---
<h3>or: You Can't Upgrade Just One<br /></h3><p>We have some ideas for scripts for making updating easier.</p><p>One script reads the filesystem and pulls out the DB connection information from the site configuration files, accepting a <span class="tt">sites</span> directory as an argument and pulling out the config file from each one.</p><p>A second script goes through each database and places the site in maintenance mode, then resets that site to the default theme (Garland). At this point everything is ready to be updated. All we have to do is copy over the files that we're updating with and then run <span class="tt">update.php</span> on each one.</p><p>Question: What is the Drupal shell? It appears to have various options including taking the site offline</p><p>Things needed for each upgrade:</p><ul><li>place site in maintenance mode</li><li>deactivate modules and record them for later reversal</li><li>set theme to default</li><li>copy new code into source</li><li>run update.php</li><li>reactivate modules</li><li>reactivate theme</li></ul><p>Problems might arise if the core database structure changes. This seems unlikely within major revisions of Drupal and has not happened in the past.</p><p>Will we have to run update.php manually on a per-site basis? Or does the Drupal shell permit us to do this in a non-interactive fashion?</p><p>There is probably value in running through update.php manually by hand once so that we can better understand the upgrade process.</p><p>Bela raised an interesting point: what happens if you lose your network connection or your sesison cookie? Is it possible to log inito a site that is in maintenance mode? </p><p>Scott: The update.php script simply gives you a button to click and the process occurs entirely on the server without user interaction. If there is a failure in the middle of the process the script will continue to run in the background. If the server loses power or suffers another catastrophic failure, that is also not particularly bad because the updates are a series of atomic database modifications that will not cause harm if previously completed steps are run again. With the site in maintenance mode, an administrator can still log in using the Libadmin account to take the site out of maintenance mode.</p><p>One thing we should have is a tool for synchronizing our production sites back to the staging area.</p><p>Drupal shell: Drush, independent of Drupal version, a separate download not packaged with the software.</p><p>One problem remaining to be solved is: When we upgrade one site, we upgrade all sites. We will need individual site owners to examine staging sites to approve the upgrade. For a handful of sites this is manageable but with many sites (e.g. hundreds) the process starts to appear unmanageable.</p><p> </p><p>Proposed:</p><p>Site owners should be responsible for</p><ul><li>editing and updating content</li><li>adding and configuring most simple and straightforward modules</li><li>user and role management</li><li>theme installation, selection, and configuration</li><li>testing of sites prior to upgrades</li><li>requesting module and theme upgrades</li></ul><p>System administrators should be responsible for:</p><ul><li>activating and configuring technically complex modules (e.g. LDAP, views)</li><li>maintaining a list of standard supportable modules, as these increase the complexity of major version upgrades</li><li>separating individual sites from the multi-site configuration when their complexity threatens the manageability of the multi-site installation</li><li>managing and upgrading core installations</li></ul><p> </p><p>It is important that we limit the degree to which site owners over individual sites as substantial differences between sites impede our ability to upgrade the installation. This can mostly comprise only limitations on the number of themes and modules available. How do we discourage them from asking for too much?</p><p>Site admin has complete control of the site. Superuser has the same privileges but is invulnerable to deletion by site admins. Site owners should have site admin privileges; systems retains Libadmin as the superuser account.</p><p>Default addon module list:</p><ul><li>WYSIWYG</li><li>ICE (images)</li><li>Print, email and PDF versions</li></ul><p>Default module blacklist</p><ul><li>Pathauto</li><li>Token (dependency of Pathauto)</li><li>Webfm</li><li>Tagadelic</li><li>LDAP</li><li>Content profile</li><li>Views</li><li>Organic groups</li></ul><p>Default core modules activated (besides default selections):</p><ul><li>Stats tracking</li><li>Search</li></ul><p>Two options: we can use a manually-maintained text file to determine which sites upon which we want to act, or we can scan the sites directory to obtain the list in an automated way. Since there are some sites we don't care about, the best option appears to be a manually-maintained list.</p><h2>Drush is here: http://drupal.org/project/drush<br /></h2>
