---
layout: post
title: MARBL Student Project Proposals.
created: 1252084094
categories: projects
---
<p>The following project proposals were sent from MARBL for consideration as Student Projects as per Joan Smiths' request for proposals.&nbsp; Bullets following the summaries are my notes for futher clarity on scope of the projects.&nbsp; These are listed in the order I'd recommend as viable projects.&nbsp; I would be hesitant to recommend the last 2 projects as student projects.</p><p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong>Database for new book acquisitions.</strong>&nbsp; These records would include provenance, value, date of acquisition, source of acquisition, curator, and bibliographic information for the books.&nbsp; It would have to be secure as the information&nbsp; is sensitive.&nbsp; (This replaces the old card catalog shelflist.)&nbsp; The database would be used to track the extent and value of acquisitions (related to shelf space and insurance valuation).</p><ul><li>No need to interact with repository or other library systems.</li><li> Standard CRUD Permissions.&nbsp; </li><li>Fresh database no legacy data to migrate.&nbsp; </li><li>Internal interface only, no public interface  Light adaptation of MARBL theme..</li><li> ~ 1000 annual records</li><li>Available MARBL staff to oversea progrees good ability to direct this project. </li></ul><p><br />2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong>Matriculation Index.</strong>&nbsp; We have rekeyed the names and demographic data for the first ca. 9,000 students who enrolled at Emory.&nbsp; Our first goal is to share this data via the web (allowing researchers and alums to browse, search and filter it).&nbsp; A possible second goal would be to link individual entries in the database to the images scanned for the Oxford photograph project (adding other images as they become available.)</p><ul><li>Eventually this metadata would need to be made available in OAI.</li><li> Eventually be able to link it to images of the students either in this system or in another related images archive.</li><li>Standard CRUD Permissions. </li><li>Data exists in Excel so data migration required.</li><li> Public facing site primarily and woudl require adaptation of MARBL theme.</li><li> ~ 9000 records.</li><li> Good solid idea of deliverables and scop but limited project management time.</li></ul><p><br />3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong>Researcher registration and circulation databases.</strong>&nbsp; We currently keep paper records describing a) each researcher and b) the items they have used.&nbsp; Both are necessary for proper collection security and both provide important information about our users and their needs.&nbsp; We would like to automate the collection of both kinds of information.&nbsp; The researcher information is currently collected via a single form that the researcher fills out once a year.&nbsp; We would like to be able to search for the records for particular individuals and to be able to aggregate the data to generate reports about our users.&nbsp; The circulation information (items they have used) would be organized by researcher.&nbsp; A list of items used (date, collection, box/item/call#, date checked out, date returned) would be created for each researcher.&nbsp; Staff could view reports by researcher, by day or by collection.&nbsp; We would also need to be able to aggregate the data to get sense of the use of the collection;</p><ul><li>Requires differential levels of editing permissions, somewhat more complext than standard CRUD. </li><li>Fresh Database no legacy data.&nbsp; </li><li>Internal Use only with perhaps light feedback or query public interface and light adaptation of MARBL theme.. </li><li>~ 1000 annual records.&nbsp;&nbsp;</li><li> Good solid idea but limited project management time.&nbsp; </li></ul><p><br />4.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong>Standard descriptive database.</strong>&nbsp; (See the  d<a href="/content/marbl-publications-inventory-db">oc in Techknowhow</a>.)&nbsp; We would use this database for the Af Am Cinema and Af Am periodicals projects.&nbsp; ** Data conversion needed. </p><ul><li>Weakest of these proposals for a student project in terms of availability and project management.&nbsp; </li></ul><p><br />None have standadized dataformats though they need stable and flexible formats based on acceptable standards.&nbsp; <br /><br /></p>
