---
layout: post
title: ! 'Iteration Report: July 6 - July 17 2009'
created: 1247841692
categories: reports report
---
<p><strong>SP Completed:</strong> 38</p><p><strong>Avg Velocity/Iteration:</strong> 37</p><p><strong>Project - Storypoints Completed This Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>Reserves Direct - 0.5</li><li>Slave Voyages - 12</li><li>ETD - 1.5</li><li>EDC - 7</li><li>Rushdie - 8</li><li>dWrangler - 6</li><li>PID Manager - 0.5</li><li>Repositories - 0.5</li><li>Web Maintanence - 3</li></ul><p><strong>Scott's Comments:</strong>&nbsp; Most of what I have to say in the retrospective bullets below.&nbsp; The iteration itself went well, the developers seemed to generally do well.&nbsp; Our problems at this stage seem to be external.&nbsp; We lack significant future planning and that makes it difficult to get setup for coming priorities.&nbsp; It also makes it difficult to keep current efforts in alignment with an overall strategy and to effect policies that help us build for future success.&nbsp; Our systems infrastructure is an issue for us as well as we don't understand the best way to get support setup for rapid deployment of things like Django applications.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>What worked</strong></p><ul><li>Lots of active engagedement by developers to strategists on the EDC project.</li><li>Developers estimating stories for projects not yet in development very useful for future planning.</li><li>Jason's feedback on last minute planning for next iteration needs. &nbsp;</li><li>Developers limited requests for future development to keep them in scope and deliverable.</li><li>Proactive communication and information seeking from the Rushdie project to Content Management on Bens' part seems to be setting up better position for building infrastructure.</li><li>Iteration Closing Notes (these!) on the blog help more than notes on a board that never get re-written.</li><li>Better communication in general, due to using a common technology stack.</li></ul><p><strong>What didn't work</strong></p><ul><li>Although we're doing some future planning, we need to get Strategists to pick up future planning tasks better in order to identify need earlier.</li><li>We don't really do transition and sustainability planning for releases and puts projects in danger of floundering after release.</li><li>No clear wrapup of iteration with the engineer, unclear where the project was at the end of the iteration.&nbsp; Some talk of a testable release but that didn't get into the hands of testers clearly.</li><li>Project outlines are not getting developed into full project plans.</li><li>Our lack of infrastructure (technology, planning, expertise) is poorly developed to support our mission.&nbsp; Things like meta-data needs, server availability and the like are not in place to a degree that allows us to quickly address development.&nbsp; We often do not have proper advance work done and a great deal of time can be spent addressing that, which keep us from development.&nbsp; Design work is taking up a lot of time on several projects.</li><li>Lack of a real system infrastructure that supports the direction we're taking is a hinderance.&nbsp; For instance we're obviously moving forward with python/django and we have problems getting a newer version of Python than 2.3 installed.&nbsp; We also lack clarity on who is responsible for what when it comes to troubleshooting and supporting system.</li></ul><p><strong>What we'll do different</strong></p><ul><li>Developers need to close an iteration with Strategists to let them know where everythign is and make sure any hand-off are satisfied.&nbsp; (Hand them any cards, make sure new cards and stories are ready for next iteration.)</li><li>List project milestone on a card if applicable.</li></ul>
