---
layout: post
title: ! 'Iteration Report: July 20 - July 31 2009'
created: 1249051032
categories: reports
---
<div class="content">
    <p><strong>SP Completed: </strong>38 </p>
<p><strong>Avg Velocity/Iteration: </strong>37 </p>
<p><strong>Project - Storypoints Completed This Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>StaffWeb - 0.5</li><li>Web Maintanence - 1.5</li><li>dWrangler (prototype) - 2.5</li><li>EDC - 3.5</li><li>Rushdie - 6</li><li>Slave Voyages - 11</li><li>ETD - 13</li></ul><p><strong>Scott's Notes:&nbsp; </strong>Not much to remark on as most of what I'll say is in the bullets below.&nbsp; We're working pretty well with our iterations, we added the requirement to have a technical plan (basic bullet list of tasks) for an entire project put together for each project by the end of this itteration.&nbsp; This should help us communicate where a project currently is to everyone.&nbsp; Our biggest need is really at the project planner and Sr management level.&nbsp; We need better project plans and more clear prioritization.<strong> <br /></strong></p>
  </div><p><strong>What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>Active collaboration between Engineer's and Strategists continues to improve.</li><li>Pushback from developers to keep things agile and broken down into reasonable releases.</li><li>Having multiple project contacts helped the responsiveness across the whole project.</li><li>Developer participatin in planning is getting better.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Some communications about what's a priority.&nbsp; </li><li>Some poor communication about project deliverables,</li><li>Strategists had to participate too much in technical problem solving.</li><li>During project negotiation we can sometimes talk over one another.</li><li>Project hand-offs to strategists and systems isn't as effective as it could be. </li><li>Project planning needs to be more detailed and requirements met before development begins.</li><li>Need better guidance from sr. management as to what constitues planning, get training for planners.</li><li>Getting feedback on requirements and from project owners changes can sometimes take too long and stall development.</li><li>Project planners losing focus on current releases in favor of new projects.&nbsp; Project leaders need to participate more in closing out a release.</li><li>Who is doing what on what project is still unclear.</li></ul><p><strong>What we'll do different</strong></p><ul><li>Better and more documentation of a project plan and deliverables.&nbsp;</li><li>Be aware of communication styles and keep a broad view of goals while discussing requirements.</li><li>Suggest some handoff plan gets created at the Digital Systems department.</li><li>Develop some kind of release closure process.</li></ul>
