---
layout: post
title: Redacting Rushdie Documents with RapidRedact
created: 1245795729
categories: rushdie redaction rapidredact digital-redaction
---
<p>Previously I posted about <a href="https://techknowhow.library.emory.edu/converting-old-mac-documents">preparing files for redaction</a> and <a href="https://techknowhow.library.emory.edu/redacting-rushdie-documents-redax">redacting with Redax</a>. Today I&rsquo;ll look at redacting them with <a href="http://www.rapidredact.com/">RapidRedact</a>. Unfortunately, despite our earlier <a href="https://techknowhow.library.emory.edu/2009-marbl-redaction-recommendation">recommendation for this software</a> (based on advertised feature lists and preliminary feature investigation), workflow experience shows that it may be inappropriate for the Rushdie project.</p>
<p>As with yesterday&rsquo;s investigation, for today&rsquo;s testing I&rsquo;m using a virtual Windows XP box running under an <a href="http://www.ubuntu.com/">Ubuntu</a> host using <a href="http://www.virtualbox.org/">VirtualBox</a>. This configuration exacerbates any performance problems but otherwise shouldn&rsquo;t affect the process. As before, I&rsquo;ve installed my trial copies of test software &mdash; today Acrobat and RapidRedact &mdash; on the Windows box.</p>
<p>RapidRedact offers me several options for opening Word files. I can right-click on the file and select Send To &gt; RapidRedact. I can open RapidRedact from the program icon on the desktop, choose &ldquo;Select a File For Redaction,&rdquo; and then browse to the file. The marketing material suggests it plugs into Office, too; I didn&rsquo;t see the plugin, but I installed Office after RapidRedact, so RapidRedact may not have been able to install its plugins. Any of these ultimately gets me to the same place, so I open &ldquo;Good Advice Is Rarer than Rubies&rdquo; like I did yesterday.</p>
<p>RapidRedact asks me to confirm that I&rsquo;m using a trial version. After that, the computer pulls up the original document in Word just long enough to let me know that it&rsquo;s printing the document to RapidRedact. RapidRedact then notifies me that it&rsquo;s preparing to redact the document, and it presents me with a dialog to select redaction options.</p>
<p>RapidRedact appears to be geared around performing most redaction upfront in an automated fashion, and then simply using the Desktop tool to clean that up. When I first open the file for redaction, the program prompts me to select terms and patterns to redact. The list appears to come prepopulated from the ones I used last time I redacted a document, which is convenient for redacting several documents the same way. It appears to allow easy importing and exporting of word lists in case these change frequently. I add a few words that I know are in the story, and I tell the program to proceed with redaction.</p>
<p>RapidRedact processes the document fairly quickly and presents me with its Desktop interface. I find the interface usable but not especially intuitive. I don&rsquo;t see a clear way to select text for redaction other than using the Rectangle Redaction Tool to hand-draw a rectangle around the text. I can Find the text via a menu option, but I don&rsquo;t see a clear way to redact directly from that selection. The interface&rsquo;s Undo command allows only a single level of undo history, and while deleting erroneous clicks is possible, it&rsquo;s again a little clunky. Fortunately, if we select our initial search list well, we shouldn&rsquo;t need to do much cleanup in the RapidRedact Desktop interface.</p>
<p>I ask RapidRedact to continue with its redaction, and it asks me for a location to save the redacted PDF file. It defaults to My Documents, so I point it to the right location and send it on its way. The program leaves me with a clearly-marked, uneditable Audit Copy to review the changes. I review this audit copy, and when I select the interface&rsquo;s Next button it offers to save the audit copy as a PDF and then exits the program once it&rsquo;s done.</p>
<p>Experience shows a few problems with RapidRedact. Aside from the kludgy user interface, the PDF files produces are ultimately 300dpi raster images. This means first that the images don&rsquo;t scale well &mdash; which shouldn&rsquo;t be a significant problem for current procedures &mdash; but more importantly it seems to interfere with exporting the redacted files to text. RapidRedact appears to use some sort of OCR to extract searchable text from the redacted document. Unfortunately, the extraction appears poor. This becomes apparent when I open the redacted PDF in Acrobat and try to highlight words. The bounding boxes of those words don&rsquo;t align well with the words on the page, and while this isn&rsquo;t a problem on its own, it points to deeper problems.</p>
<p>Sure enough, those deeper problems become serious when I ask Acrobat to export the file as accessible text. I open the exported text in a <a href="http://www.vim.org/">text editor</a> and find a mess. The exported text has most of its words stuck together without spaces, and some lines are stuck together with the lines above and below them when the original text clearly separates them. Quotation marks are missing. A few documents have words copied entirely incorrectly. The exported text is essentially unusable without significant work. Other files &mdash; even ones from outside the Rushdie project &mdash; exhibit the same problem.</p>
<p>I emailed our RapidRedact sales representative a week ago with the details of the problem, and while he acknowledged my mail and promised to forward my information to their technical team, I have not heard back from them since.</p>
<p>RapidRedact has some interesting features. While the Desktop interface is a little uncomfortable, a well-configured search list at the beginning significantly reduces the need for this interface and thus the negative impact of the problem. Overall redaction workflow in RapidRedact seems to progress rather quickly. Unfortunately, some sort of quality text export is vital to our search and other processing after redaction on this project. As of today, I haven&rsquo;t found any way to work around RapidRedact&rsquo;s problem in this vital feature. If RapidRedact&rsquo;s sales or support structure ever get back to me with an adequate solution or workaround, we may reconsider for future projects. Until then, I have to disqualify the application for use in this project.</p>
