---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report June 22 - July 3 2009
created: 1246549101
categories: reports report
---
<p><strong>SP Completed:</strong> 35</p><p><strong>Avg Velocity:</strong> 34</p><p><strong>Project - StoryPoints Completed this Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>StaffWeb TAS - 1.5</li><li>Repositories - 3</li><li>Website Maintanance - 2</li><li>Databases@Emory - 0.5</li><li>Rushdie Archives - 8.5</li><li>Django Core - 0.5</li><li>EDC GIS Search - 5.5</li><li>DigWF - 1.5</li><li>dWrangler - 2</li><li>African Voyages - 10</li></ul><p><strong>Scott's Notes:</strong>&nbsp; Pretty much what I'll want to say is covered in the retrospective notes below.&nbsp; These notes haven't been posted previously but at the end of every iteration we talk to all the planners and develoeprs who are available and ask what worked, what didn't work and what do we want to try to do differently next iteration.&nbsp; </p><p>Planning evolving and getting better but we still have poor release planning in general and most things we feed into an iteration are just in time requirements rather than a longer plan.&nbsp; Difficulty still persists across the library as people don't know the process for getting a project in development.&nbsp; On our side we have still don't know how to get a project in development either as someone needs to clarify for developers what is a priority and how to seperate something from the general pool of ideas as being in alignment with the strategic direction of the library.</p><p>Staying on task and focused is still a bit of an issue.</p><p><strong>Retrospective</strong></p><p>Feedback from various Strategist and Developers about what worked and didn't work in the iteration.</p><p><strong>What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>Stragetist involvement was very helpful for clarifying process and getting plans together.</li><li>Communication on progress improved toward the end of the iteration.</li><li>Jason found it useful to put cards he had completed to the right of his lane and cards he just picked up to the left.&nbsp; This made it easier for him to report what he did yesterday and was queueing up for today.</li><li>Pair programming was very useful in getting&nbsp; up to speed on Django.</li><li>Lists of progress and remaining tasks at the end of an interation was effective for stake-holders.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Process itself could be more clear to planners.</li><li>Still Unclear how to get projects into development.</li><li>Planners not getting back in a timely fashion on what is or isn't done.</li><li>Planners not providing adequate enough specs on requirements is keeping some releases in extended "limbo".</li><li>Project Focus suffered because of callback to previous tasks, side conversations and other interations.</li><li>Lack of distributed skills make double checking or engineering choices difficult to vet.</li><li>Having to QA Test internally is causing development delays.</li></ul><p><strong>What we will Change next Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>Increase area of the developer slot.</li><li>Be mindful of limiting distractions and staying on task.</li></ul><p><strong>Other Thoughts</strong></p><p>We should begin to address the concept of deployment and dependencies.&nbsp; We will try to begin including a readme file in software root directories listing software and version dependensies for software.</p>
