---
layout: post
title: Library Dashboard (from Brown University) - written for django, too!
created: 1235509388
categories: dashboard
---
<p>Thought I'd pass this on from the DLF listserv since Rick Luce has been wanting an online dashboard, like, forever.</p><p> </p><p>via @dchud (dan chudnov) at code4lib, a very neat widget<br />dashboard for a circulating library at Brown Univ. -<br /><br />http://library.brown.edu/dashboard/info/<br /><br />"First, it aims to provide, at a glance, useful information<br />about the flow of library data. The analogy to a car dashboard<br />is apt. Just as a glance at the instruments on a car dashboard<br />provides useful information about the car's speed,<br />engine-temperature, and headlight-settings -- a glance at the<br />'widgets' that make up the Library dashboard provides useful<br />information about the 'operation' of Josiah, easyBorrow,<br />Illiad, etc.<br /><br />"Second, the implementation of the Library dashboard is<br />intended to make it very easy for data-creators and managers<br />to build widgets that they themselves and others can use. An<br />administrative form will allow any library staff-member to<br />create a widget by filling out basic information, pasting in<br />data-values in a specified format. From this information, all<br />of the data shown below is created automatically.<br /><br />"Of course, manually updating widgets is not ideal; the goal is<br />to automate the population of widget data. However, there are<br />many data-producers in the Library that currently create data<br />manually. The dashboard offers the possibility to expose this<br />data immediately and easily. ITS staff can then work on<br />automating data updates."<br /></p>
