---
layout: post
title: ! 'Meeting on DM3S '
created: 1250625755
categories: digital masters
---
<p>This is an initial discussion for a scope related to an initial effort.&nbsp; </p><p>At it's heart this would be intended to </p><p>Create an applicaiton that creates and edits a defined metadata format for audio files as designated by MARBL and refined by Metadata Librarians.</p><p><strong>To accomplish this we would need:</strong></p><ul><li>An application to create and edit metadata on related ditial audio recordings.</li><li>Method for injesting metadata and possibly associate audio recordings into the repository.&nbsp; (Debate underway on weather we want to injest the actual audio files into the repository or just link to them. Scott's Notes:&nbsp; I would recommend the repository as the primary means for storage, management and perservation of digital audio files)</li><li>the above appication to search and retreieve objects from the repository for browsing and editing</li><li>The process should also include an audit feature of changes made to metadata and objects.</li><li>Roles and permissions should be granular enough to limit to various features (View and CRUD) to specific user roles.</li><li>User login via LDAP.</li></ul><p><strong>REQUIREMENTS</strong></p><p>Before development on this could begin we coudl need.</p><ul><li>Metadata structure</li><li>Management method or application for the original audio files.</li></ul><p><strong>Other Items</strong></p><p>Some concerns exist about how the Libraries overall are addressing the managemnt of ditial object metadata and perservation.</p><ul><li>We shoud&nbsp; keep in mind scalability and portability of Metadata.&nbsp;</li><li>We should keep in mind being able to designate metadata as accessible for various applications.&nbsp; (Primo, DLF Aquifer or other things).</li><li>We would also want to capture Technical Metadata (JHOVE or FITS) automatically during injest.</li><li>This would be a good candidate project to develop an ActiveFedora type library for Django.</li><li>We will want to eventually migrate a bunch of filesystem objects into this system. This is ackholeged but not a part of this scope or estimate.</li></ul><p>A VERY ROUGH estimate of this project as scoped here would be 1 FTE 6 - 9 months.</p>
