---
layout: post
title: ! 'Reflections: Hardware for digital redaction of sensitive materials'
created: 1244842698
categories: redaction security computer hardware marbl
---
<p>The other day I hopped upstairs to visit <a href="http://marbl.library.emory.edu/">MARBL</a>. Some days I do that just to browse, or for the wonderful view from the tenth floor porch. This time, though, it was for work.</p>
<p>I&rsquo;m working with MARBL on an exciting project that&rsquo;s going to require some redaction of digital files. MARBL has good experience sorting and redacting print media, but digital collections &mdash; especially ones with the size and sensitivity of this one &mdash; are new to us all. This particular collection, in fact, has to be kept entirely off the network due to external security constraints. With my background in network security I&rsquo;ve dealt with network-inaccessible data before, though I haven&rsquo;t needed to consider the implications for a non-technical professional. One of the MARBL employees &mdash; I&rsquo;ll call her Janice since I forgot to ask her if I could use her real name &mdash; graciously spent some time talking with me a bit about their setup, and I ran into some points that I hadn&rsquo;t considered before.</p>
<p>But first, the one I did expect: MARBL&rsquo;s computers are all connected to the Internet. These days it&rsquo;s a rare computer that&rsquo;s not online, especially in a university library. Unfortunately this makes those computers instantly inappropriate for a collection that we&rsquo;ve promised to keep entirely off the Internet. We could conceivably disconnect one of those computers for this project, but then it would be out of commission for its original function, and they don&rsquo;t have a ton of spares lying around up there.</p>
<p>See, Janice explained to me, they don&rsquo;t have a lot of desktop computers up there because computers take up horizontal space. Sure, not a <em>ton</em> of space, but try to spread out a collection of several score old and rare papers on your desk and see how big that keyboard and mouse and LCD and small-footprint desktop feel. It fills up really fast. And MARBL&rsquo;s collections are bigger. So what they mostly use are laptops, since laptops are easy to close and stow when they&rsquo;re not in use.</p>
<p>Now, laptops these days almost all have wireless cards, and Emory has a <a href="https://it.emory.edu/showdoc.cfm?docid=5231">campus-wide wireless network</a>. This is incredibly convenient for people who want to connect to the Internet from their laptops &mdash; that is, almost everyone. For this particular project, though, it means that using a laptop for redaction requires either carefully checking that the laptop is off the wireless network before connecting sensitive drives to the computer, or else using a laptop that&rsquo;s had its wireless connection explicitly disabled. And that doesn&rsquo;t speak to the countless high-profile news stories lately where government and corporate officials lost sensitive data simply because laptops are so darned easy to steal. Ultimately it was for these reasons that I recommended against using laptops whenever they can be avoided for this project and for other projects involving highly-sensitive data.</p>
<p>So that left us with desktop workstations. You can get some remarkably small ones today. It&rsquo;s still a lot of space when you&rsquo;ve got a bunch of papers to sort, but some are more portable than others, and not needing to worry about as many security issues makes it simpler for a lot of less-technical users. Janice said they could probably borrow a computer from the Library&rsquo;s Systems department for the duration of the redaction project. We still need to make sure that we keep tabs on it and get it carefully wiped of all potentially-sensitive data when it gets returned.</p>
