---
layout: post
title: University Libraries help set Google Books pricing.
created: 1242913192
categories: repositories
---
<p>Interesting article in NYT about Libraries Print On Demand and Google Book Scanning.  Thanks to @amandafrench for posting it.</p><p style="padding-left: 30px;"><a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/21/technology/companies/21google.html?_r=2">Google Book-Scanning Pact to Give Libraries Input on Price</a></p><p style="padding-left: 30px;">SAN FRANCISCO — In a move that could blunt some of the criticism of Google for its settlement of a lawsuit over its book-scanning project, the company signed an agreement with the University of Michigan that would give some libraries a degree of oversight over the prices Google could charge for its vast digital library.</p><p>Doesn't appear that Emory is in the group of 21 that can challenge pricing, but we also haven't contributed books to the process.  I believe Google Books are using JPG2000 image format which will be interesting in terms of the metadata they will present to the reader in general and weather this format will take hold more in the digital archiving community.</p><p>Not surprisingly, I'm a big fan of opening information to people but this gets to be somewhat strange in that it would be open to public libraries but not academic libraries.  Could anyone imagine a world where someone had to leave their major university to go to a local county library to access a document on Google?  It seems to violate the entire spirit of information sharing.  On the other hand the argument can be made that there is a significant difference between a public library being about the public good and University Academic Libraries being about information as a product.</p><p>It will be interesting to see where th is goes.</p>
