---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report Nov 9 - Nov 20 2009
created: 1258732960
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed:</strong>&nbsp; 26 sp</p>
<p><strong>Average Velocity:&nbsp;</strong> 20 sp/itr</p><p><strong>Story Points Completed by Project</strong></p><ul><li>Global Health Chronicles&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 9</li><li>Rushdie&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 7.5</li><li>Slave Voyages&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 3</li><li>Digitization Workflow&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1.5</li><li>Large Scale Digitization Initiative&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1.5</li><li>EUL/Django Core&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1</li><li>Reserves Direct&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1</li><li>Drupal Sites&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 0.5</li><li>dWrangler&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 0.5</li><li>Electronic Thesis and Dissertation&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 0.5</li></ul><p><strong>Scott's Comments:</strong>&nbsp; The iteration overall went well and I don't have many comments.&nbsp; We continue to be impacted by the Flu that is going around and the availability of people to clarify, and plan is sometimes patchy.&nbsp; I don't see this as a problem but it should be mentioned as an impact factor.&nbsp; It's worth noting that consistantly the number one impact on productivity seems to be the level of project planning and clarity of work that we're undertaking.&nbsp; Projects with good advanced planning seem to make big advances and I would say that there is almost a direct relationship between the quality of planning and productivity on any individual project.</p><p>One factor in planning that seems to be a probem are the changing nature of our process as we mature and refine our agile process.&nbsp; In particular it seems unclear to people when an element or part of a process has or is changing.&nbsp; I think this is true and take it on myself to try to communicate better.&nbsp; One difficulty in all this however is that we don't communicate on plans other than our Iteration Planning meetings which is when we need them to be complete.&nbsp; So I would stress that advanced planning will help significantly with this issue, even if only to clarify best practices early.&nbsp; We will however have to accept a level of change and uncertainty as we try to identify better and best practices and refine our process.</p><p><strong>What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>Interactions with systems on some projects went well and continues to improve.</li><li>The projects with good planning and clarity operated smoothly and progressed well.&nbsp; This continues to be one of the major factors in meeting development goals.</li><li>Coordination between developers to identify&nbsp; accoplishable features helps us move through chunks of work better.</li><li>Working with other developers to ramp up and adopt new skillsets is a valuable tool.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Communication, particularly with remote planners and stakeholders needs to be improved.</li><li>Coordination between developers and remote stake holders needs to improve to cut down on surprises and assumptive development.</li><li>Poor systems or software architecture and tight application coupling causes uneeded instability or difficulties extending or fixing code.</li><li>Processes for addressing bug fixes and how that fits with planning is a bit unclear.</li><li>Sometimes it unclear when we're stuck on an issue.</li><li>Process changes aren't as clear to everyone.</li><li>Develepers are not putting story points on all tasks in Trac so we can'treport them or sum the total effort estimated for a release.</li><li>Developers are not creating cards for all tasks they are working on out of Trac.</li></ul><p><strong>What We'll Do Different</strong></p><ul><li>Try to proactively schedule specific dates when we are done to setup review or other handoff activies.</li><li>We need to work out a more clear path for addressing bug fixes and feeding them back into the planning proces.&nbsp; [That is to send bugs back to the owner so they can request development.&nbsp; Make notes of critial recommendations in Trac.]</li><li>We should both listen and communicate better in stand-ups about when we're unsure or stuck.&nbsp;&nbsp; Inidivuals should also monitor their progress on tasks and adjust project plans when they start to become stuck.</li><li>Communication on planning and processes should happen throughout the iteration.</li></ul><p><strong>FTE Assignments for next Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>Rushdie (1 FTE): Ben (50%), Pete (50%)</li><li>GHC (0.5 FTE): Sari (50%)</li><li>Voyages (0.5 FTE): Alex (50%)</li><li>eReserves: (1 FTE) Rebecca (50%), Ben (50%)</li><li>ETD: (1 FTE) Rebecca (50%), Alex (50%)</li><li>PIDMan: (0.5 FTE) Sari (50%)</li></ul>
