---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report Sept 28 - Oct 9
created: 1255103843
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>SP Completed:</strong> 33.5</p><p><strong>AVG Velocity:</strong> 37</p><p><strong>Story Points by Project:</strong></p><ul><li>ActiTime 1</li><li>ETD 1.5</li><li>dWrangler 2.5</li><li>PID Manager 4.5</li><li>GDE 7</li><li>Slave Voyages 7.5</li><li>Rushdie 12.5</li></ul><p><strong>What worked</strong></p><ul><li>Good access to actual users provided much more insight than just examining user stories.</li><li>Having the structure of our process to fall back on during RIF transition helped managed it a bit better.</li><li>The things that were in Trac were vital to picking up tasks after staffing adjustments became nessisary. </li><li>Direct work with Systems Engineers is improving and was very helpful on the Fedora 3 migration.</li></ul><p><strong>What didn't work</strong></p><ul><li>User story breakdowns continue to be a problem.&nbsp; We could be much more effective if stories were more granular and long term goals were more fleshed out.&nbsp; Currently it's hard to know if we're on track and often we don't have enough information to know if we're making appropriate technical decisions.</li><li>Part-time, students and distance employees still struggle a bit with what Story Points are and a common understanding of scales with regular developers.</li><li>Coordination when there are multiple project stake holders could be imporved.&nbsp; </li><li>Splitting a developer across multiple release plans on the same project seems to be detremental to the project.&nbsp; Within a project we should be concentrating on the current release.</li><li>Subdivison of components in a release can sometimes be so different as to not allow proper information sharing between developers.</li><li>Collaboration can be difficul between developers who work different schedules.</li><li>Testing browser compatability is very difficult in our environment.</li><li>Previously undocumented code and projects specifications is going to be a problem going forward.&nbsp; </li></ul><p><strong>What we'll do different</strong></p><ul><li>We will try to concentrate on more pair programming techniques.</li><li>Better coordination between developers who are working together.</li><li>Recommend the creation of library of systems or VMs available to devs and syseng to browser compatability.</li><li>Continue to consider how to fitting code reviews into our process.</li></ul><p><strong>Scott's Comments:&nbsp;</strong> We're still recovering from significan't staffing changes but overall I think everyone from planners to developers did a very good job of using the system in place to move forward.&nbsp; Our past two iteration planning meetings have been some of the most effective and planners making themselves available as they have been has been invaluable (Thank you!).&nbsp; We had several competing priorities and we seem to be able to use the planning and estimation tools in front of us effectively to plan, at least in the short term.&nbsp;&nbsp; The developers also have shown a tremendous resilliance to the changes and have been picking up thigns well.&nbsp; In particular I think developers are getting better at pushing back for best practices.&nbsp; Perhaps the lean nature of our work since the reduction in force is bringing this to the forefront of peoples minds but we seem to have gotten better about drawing the line when we need to instead of stumbling forward into bad practices.</p><p>It would be difficult not to comment on the departments performance in points as we completed roughly 36 points, which is on par with previous performance.&nbsp; I think it's too early to really tell the impact of staffing changes on our velocity.&nbsp; We don't count the points until an entire user story is done so this sometimes causes high levels of variation between iterations and it's really the average velocity that is more significant.&nbsp; We should have a more clear picture of staffing effects in another iteration or two.</p><p><strong>Staffing for Next Iteration</strong></p><ul><li><strong>dWrangler:&nbsp; 0.5 FTE</strong><br />Scott (30%)</li><li><strong>GHC:&nbsp; 0.5 FTE</strong><br />Rebecca (50%)</li><li><strong>PID Manager: 0.5 FTE</strong><br />Sari (50%);</li><li><strong>Rushdie: 0.5 FTE</strong><br />Ben (50%); Pete (50%)</li><li><strong>Slave Voyages: 0.5 FTE</strong><br />Alex (50%)</li><li><strong>DigWF: 0.5 FTE</strong><br />Sari/Alex (50%)</li><li><strong>eReserves: 0.5 FTE</strong><br />Alex/Sari (50%)</li></ul>
