---
layout: post
title: Redacting Rushdie Documents with Redax
created: 1245711112
categories: rushdie redax redaction digital-redaction
---
<p><a href="https://techknowhow.library.emory.edu/converting-old-mac-documents">Previously</a> I&rsquo;d converted several of Rushdie&rsquo;s old files to MS Word format in preparation for redaction. Now I&rsquo;ll look at transferring them to a Windows box and redacting them using <a href="http://www.appligent.com/redax'">Redax</a>.</p>

<p>For my testing I&rsquo;m using a virtual Windows XP box, running under an <a href="http://www.ubuntu.com/">Ubuntu</a> host using <a href="http://www.virtualbox.org/">VirtualBox</a>. The virtual environment shouldn&rsquo;t significantly impact the operations I&rsquo;m performing, though operation in a native Windows installation will almost certainly be faster. Performance on a VM inside a cranky old box isn&rsquo;t spectacular.</p>

<p>I&rsquo;ve installed both MS Office and a trial copy of Adobe Acrobat on my virtual Windows box. When I browse to my files in Windows Explorer, it lists them happily and gives them Word icons. When I right-click on one, it offers me a &ldquo;Convert to Adobe PDF&rdquo; option. I select this option for one of the early manuscripts I&rsquo;m working with. This one is a late draft of &ldquo;<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/East,_West">Good Advice Is Rarer than Rubies</a>.&rdquo;</p>

<p>Acrobat prompts me to enter an Acrobat serial number or acknowledge that I&rsquo;m still using the trial version. Workflow using a non-trial copy of Acrobat will certainly not include this step. It then prompts me with a standard &ldquo;Save As&hellip;&rdquo; dialog to pick a location to save my converted PDF, defaulting to &ldquo;My Documents.&rdquo; I select the proper location and click &ldquo;Save.&rdquo; Acrobat shows me a window with a status bar as it converts the file. When the conversion is complete, Acrobat opens editing the newly-minted PDF file. It again prompts me to enter a serial number or confirm that I&rsquo;m using a trial version.</p>

<p>The PDF copy looks almost exactly like the Word copy. The only difference I can detect is that the header and footer, gray in the Word version, are darker gray or black in the converted PDF. I can&rsquo;t currently compare the file against the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MacWrite">MacWrite II</a> original: The computer we pulled the file from was his computer from several years after the publication of <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/East,_West">East, West</a>, and this computer (now virtualized for our archival work) couldn&rsquo;t open its backup copy of this old file.</p>

<p>We don&rsquo;t expect the manuscripts to require redaction. For testing the workflow, though, I begin redacting the manuscript. When I first configured Acrobat, I configured the toolbars (under Tools &gt; Customize Toolbars), selecting the Redaction Toolbar and dragging that into Acrobat&rsquo;s toolbar. This toolbar has a &ldquo;Mark for Redaction&rdquo; button, so I select that and began highlighting sections of text. Acrobat surrounds each with a red box, indicating that the selection is marked for redaction.</p>

<p>I save the file with redaction markings (though still not actually redacted) under a different name. Acrobat again defaults to saving the file in &ldquo;My Documents,&rdquo; so I pick the corrected location, type a new name, and click &ldquo;Save.&rdquo; I then apply the redaction using my Redaction Toolbar. After applying the redaction, Acrobat offers to search the document for metadata for my review. I take advantage of this option, deleting the metadata I don&rsquo;t like, and leaving the harmless metadata.</p>

<p>Acrobat has redacted the existing file, so I again use &ldquo;Save As&rdquo; to save it under a new filename. Now I have five files: the MacWrite II original, the Word document that I got from the conversion process in my previous post, the PDF version of the file that I created today, a version of this file with redaction markings (for future editing, if I desire it), and a final fully-redacted copy. In a real redaction job it is this final copy that MARBL would release to researchers.</p>

<p>To verify the redaction, I use Acrobat to export the data to accessible text. Viewing the file in <a href="http://www.vim.org/">my favorite text editor</a>, I see that the redacted content is gone, the clear content is accessible, and overall it looks pretty. I also see that the curly quotes are represented using the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows-1252">Windows-1252</a> character encoding, a fact which we&rsquo;ll need to account for when we import the text files into any other system. This is a purely technical detail, though; MARBL archivists will not need to bother with it.</p>

<p>I follow a similar process for several other files. They come from a variety of original formats, though all of them have been converted to Word files as described earlier. All have predictably similar results. The only one that has any problem at all is a file containing early notes for &ldquo;<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Ground_Beneath_Her_Feet">The Ground Beneath Her Feet</a>.&rdquo;</p>

<p>This draft, in Word format, has very blocky formatting, suggesting either problems converting or simply a very rough original. Like the first document, its original format is no longer viewable for comparison on the computer we retrieved the file from. Word misrenders the document&rsquo;s curly quotes as black boxes, an indication that it doesn&rsquo;t recognize the characters. Acrobat, however, correctly renders them as curly quotes. Redaction proceeds normally, but the redaction boxes are large, and when I apply the redactions, Acrobat removes more text than I originally selected. This error is easily visible in the display that Acrobat gives me, so I return to the version with redaction notes, draw the redaction boxes manually, and reapply the redaction. The manual redaction takes a few tries to get just right, but ultimately produces satisfactory results. The curly quotes are encoded in Windows-1252 encoding; it&rsquo;s not clear why Word had a problem with them.</p>

<p>Overall, Redax (running inside Acrobat) performed the redaction process admirably. While it was not perfectly seamless, the user experience was quite comfortable, and brief explorations into advanced features of Redax seemed similarly comfortable. It should be easy for MARBL archivists to apply the program to their redaction needs. Look for another post soon (hopefully tomorrow) about why falling back to Redax might be necessary.</p>
