---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report Oct 26 - Nov 6 2009
created: 1257530300
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed:</strong>&nbsp; 21.5 sp</p>
<p><strong>Average Velocity:&nbsp;</strong> 22 sp/itr</p>
<p><strong>Story Points by Project:</strong></p><ul><li>ETD&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 9.5</li><li>Rushdie&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 3.5</li><li>Slave Voyages&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 3</li><li>DigWF&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1.5</li><li>Drupal Sites&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1</li><li>dWrangler&nbsp;&nbsp; 1</li><li>GDE&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1</li><li>PID Manager&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1</li></ul><p><strong>Scott's Comments:</strong>&nbsp; We were much more productive this iteration.&nbsp; Project planning is much improved over last iteration and less developer time was spent no testing or planning.&nbsp; There were some emergency fixes driven by demonstration needs as well (GHC) that causes some immediate reworking of priorities.&nbsp; We still have some difficulties with mid to long term planning and find that as we come up on the end of an iteration it's not clear what we'll be working on next.&nbsp; This creates a liability for the library as we're not as able to engineer proper solutions when requires come in "just in time" for coding to start.</p><p>Predominantly the environment we're develping in is either interrupt or immediate need driven and this does not position us well to plan more sustainable or extensible solutions.</p><p>Another factor to acknowlege this iteration was the impact of sickness on the development team.&nbsp; Flu caused a total of 8 sick man-days in the team and 21 story points completed seems descent productivity given that.</p><p><strong>What worked:</strong></p><ul><li>Projects that do have advanced planning are able to make good progress.</li><li>Systems hands-off are starting to work better.</li><li>Communication between developers is starting to get better as communication styles adjust and they are able to collaborate more on development.</li><li>Programers understand a wider range of codes bases because of past collaborative work.</li><li>Hudson continuous intergration is encouraging better practices.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work:</strong></p><ul><li>We're inconsitant with advance planning and that is costing us in terms of productivity and portfolio management. </li><li>Updating of Development plans is still inconsistent.</li><li>Requests for development tend to be last minute and make it difficult to engineer good solutions.</li><li>Last minute revisting of previous agreements that implicate drastic technical changes can cause things to become unfocused.</li></ul><p><strong>What We'll Do Different:</strong></p><ul><li>Scott will continue to be a pest about planning and engineering issue, get use to it.<strong><br /></strong></li><li>Think about creating coders 'to-do' list or cleanup items.</li></ul><p><strong>Staffing for Next Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>Rushdie (1.5 FTE): Ben (100%), Pete (50%)</li><li>eReserves:&nbsp; Alex (50%); Sari (50%)</li><li>GHC: Rebecca (50%); Sari (50%)</li><li>Repositories: Rebecca (50%)</li><li>Voyages: Alex (50%)</li></ul><p><strong>Other Misc LeftOver Item</strong>s</p><ul><li>Sari to finish setting up a staging/production space for PID Manager</li></ul>
