---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report 1 Feb 2010 - 12 Feb 2010
created: 1265994326
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed: </strong>57 sp </p>
<p><strong>Average Velocity: </strong>42.5 sp/itr </p>
<p><strong>Strory Points Completed by Project:</strong></p><ul><li>Rushdie&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 17.5</li><li>dWrangler&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 15</li><li>Electronic Thesis and Dissertation&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 13</li><li>Slave Voyages&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 10</li><li>Drupal Sites&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1</li><li>Reserves Direct&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1</li><li>Digitization Workflow&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 0</li></ul><p><strong>What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>Deveoper collaboration still working well.</li><li>Experimental projects seem to be shaping up well for a good return on library technical debt.</li><li>Slack time allows developers to experiment and catch up to suggest better fixes and strategies.</li><li>Well defined tasks and deliverables continue to see the most progress.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>User stories not written properly at times.</li><li>Not formatting release plans properly.</li><li>Time lag in interacting with external stake-holders or with external dependencies can cause us to get delayed or unfocused.</li><li>Testing and interaction with project managers isn't as efficient as it could be. </li><li>Hand-off's to stake holders and project managers isn't working well in some cases.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The project will benefit more by stake-holders being more active in the close out process.</li><li>Acceptance testing is not adequate.</li><li>In some cases Project Managers and Stakeholders are not </li><li>Although development planning has improved overall project planning ahs not improved as much and in particular we have difficulties </li><li>Deployment to testing enviroments is still a bit too convoluted and unclear </li></ul><p><strong>What We'll Try Differently</strong></p><ul><li>Add standard closing tasks to Release Plan Template.</li><li>Make sure all release plans are formatted correctly.</li><li>Push back on user stories.</li><li>Define closing tasks better and try to giving more advanced notice when testing needs to be done.</li><li>Push back to stake-holders and project planners to complete requirements.</li></ul><p><strong>Scott's Notes:</strong>&nbsp; The snow day on Friday delayed our notes so I appologize for them going up later than usual.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Productivity on the Iteration went well overall.&nbsp; One of the issues we've been struggling with is that of successful hand-offs.&nbsp; People expressed some confusion understanding when something was done with coding or when some requirement was not met by and outside stakeholder.&nbsp; To that end we are beginning to put a closing tasks section in every Release Plan to cover those hand-off items.</p><p><strong>Work Assignments for Next Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>Rushdie (1 FTE): Ben (0.5), Pete(0.5)</li><li>ETD (0.5 FTE): Alex (0.5)</li><li>Voyages (&lt;0.5 FTE): Alex (&lt;0.5)</li><li>eReserves (1 FTE): Sari (1)</li><li>PID Server (&lt; 0.5 FTE):&nbsp; Alex(&lt;0.5)</li><li>DigWF (&lt; 0.5 FTE):&nbsp; Rebecca(&lt;0.5)</li><li>Finding Aids Initiation (0.5): Rebecca (0.5 FTE), Ben (&lt; 0.5 FTE)</li></ul>
