---
layout: post
title: Planning Meeting for Iteration 30 Aug - 10 Sep 2010
created: 1282311695
categories: reports
---
<p>These are rough notes from our planning meeting for the upcomming iteration 30 Aug - 10 Sep 2010</p><p>Note:&nbsp; Given the current estimates on projects in development it seems several projects will be wrapping up on deevlopment in the mid to late September.&nbsp; This will create some opportunities for new or continued development and I would encourage us to enter planning and discussions for next projects.</p><p><strong>Updated on Current Projects in Development</strong></p><ul><li>Finding Aids: Progressing.&nbsp; We may need somoe additional information from project leads.&nbsp; Planners will check with her Wed if there additional needs.&nbsp; PID manager work that is a blocker for several other projects is being rolled into Finding Aids storypoint wise.&nbsp; Next Iteration Development.</li><li>Digital Masters:&nbsp; Progressing under modiified development plan currently posted to Trac.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Focus is on earlier relesaes with a greater focus on testing to shape future development.&nbsp; Space issues provisioned by UTS are under discussion.&nbsp; Next Iteration Development and Testing on previous 'prototype" milestone will be complete.</li><li>ETD:&nbsp;&nbsp; Progressing well, current estimates project this finishing next iteration and going into testing. There is one user story withhout estimated tasks that is waiting on feedback from Rollins. This could impact the end date depending on requirements discovered during that planning.&nbsp; Questions about any additional requirements for support, Erica is talking with appropriate parties to coordinate this.&nbsp; Next Iteration Development.</li><li>Digitization Workflow:&nbsp;&nbsp; Planning continuing.&nbsp; Currently estimated at 10 points but expected to grow a bit.&nbsp; Expect to finish coding in the upcomming iteration.&nbsp; Next Iteration Development (Beginning of testing)</li></ul><p>Upcomming Projects?</p><p><strong>Rushdie:</strong>&nbsp; We're negotiating how to address this project in the future. </p><p><strong>PID Manager:</strong>&nbsp; In addition to the work targetd in Finding Aids there is the need for advancing this project and Kyle will work to detail the improvements and get the work planned.</p><p><strong>OAI providers:</strong>&nbsp; Need some modificaion to support changes to stylesheet are reflected in the OAI provider and harrvested correctly.</p><p>What Worked</p><ul><li>Focused planning on Digital Masters has significantly helped the project.</li><li>Planning help from systems was effecitve in the Digital Masters project.</li><li>Working with developers (Sari) on roadmapping projects for Digitization Workflow was very useful.</li><li>Communication on ETD is particularly effective and we seeing skill forged by working with external stake-holders develoing well, particularly on the part of Alex and Sari.</li><li>Availability of the developoment manger to work out issues ad-hoc is helpful.</li></ul><p>What didn't work</p><ul><li>Name change debate on Digiital Masters was difficult.&nbsp; Not sure this is about or process but mentioning iit here to capture what was said in an honest way.</li></ul><p>What we'll do different</p>
