---
layout: post
title: Common Proceedures for Initiating a Django Project
created: 1289851640
categories: django
---
<p>I'm just jotting down a few notes of some methods I use for setting up a typical Django project.</p><p><strong>Create the Initial Source directory</strong></p><p>I like to create an initial source directory for the entire project so I can easily manage it in subversion.&nbsp; This will contain my django project directory as well as template, docs, media and other directories I typeically keep at the same level as the django project directory.</p><p><strong>Initiating a project</strong></p><p>I initiate a django project under my initial source directory and pick some meaniful name.&nbsp; The command for this is:</p><pre>&gt;&gt;django-admin.py startproject &lt;project name&gt; </pre><p><strong>Create Additional Directories and Files.</strong></p><p>Under the source directory, at the same level as my django project directory I typically create these standard folders for my djano project. Often I not only create the folder themselves but also initialize a '.empty' file in each directory so they will check in correctly when using Mecurial.</p><ul><li>templates - for all django site templates.</li><li>sitemedia - to contain all static media for the site.&nbsp; (i.e. images, stylesheets, scripts)</li><li>externals - for any code externals that I don't want to install locally.&nbsp; Note I use this very infrequently now as things are either installed locally or I look toward virtualenv more for local libraries.</li><li>docs - This will be the directory I initialize the project sphinx documentation in when I get around to it.</li></ul><p>Also I typeically create the following files under the django project:</p><ul><li>&lt;project name&gt;/README - Contains summary and overview information about the application.</li><li>&lt;project name&gt;/CHANGELOG - For Version HIstory.</li><li>&lt;project name&gt;/DEPLOYMENTNOTES - for Installation and upgrade information.</li></ul><p><strong>Create a Local Settings File for the django project</strong></p><p>In order to isolate settings information that changes for each installation I copy the file &lt;project name&gt;/settings.py to &lt;project name&gt;/localsettings-dist.py and then go into the localsettings-dist.py file and remove any settings that wont be configured in that file.&nbsp; The intetion obviously is that this file would be copies to &lt;project name&gt;/locasettings.py for an actual intallation of the application.&nbsp; REMEMBER that any change to the localsettings file needs to be reflected in localsettings-dist so it's maintained in all future versions of the application.</p><p>Configure the Settings file to read localsettings.</p><p>At the bottom of &lt;project name&gt;/settings.py add a line to read the localsettings.py values so they override any settings values.&nbsp; This might look like:</p><pre>try:<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; from localsettings import *<br />except ImportError:<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; import sys<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; print &gt;&gt;sys.stderr, '''Settings not defined.&nbsp; Please configure a version of<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; localsettings.py for this site.&nbsp; See localsettings-dist.py for setup<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; details.'''<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; del sys</pre><p>This is one way of many this could be implemented.</p><p><strong>Set a BASE_DIR attribute in settings and use that to reference all paths.</strong></p><p>Django has a bad habit of wanting you to set absolute paths (I feel) needlessly.&nbsp; You can get around this by setting a BASE_DIR attribute in your &lt;project name&gt;/settings.py file that will read the path of the current file and use that attribute throughout the file to build path information where needed.</p><p>Near the top of the settings.py file add something like:</p><pre>import os<br /></pre><pre>BASE_DIR = os.path.dirname(os.path.abspath(__file__))</pre><p>and then later in the file when it calls for path information use the 'os.path.join' method to build your path from BASE_DIR as with this example for the MEDIA_ROOT attribute:</p><pre>MEDIA_ROOT = os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'sitemedia')</pre><p><strong>Add Externals to the Python path.</strong></p><p>The previously externals directory should be added to the python path in the settings.py file so it will load any libraries installed there.&nbsp; To do this add some code to &lt;project name&gt;/settings.py somewhere above the code that imports local settings like so.</p><pre>EXTENSION_DIRS = (<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'apps'),<br />)<br /><br />import sys<br />try:<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; sys.path.extend(EXTENSION_DIRS)<br />except NameError:<br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; pass # EXTENSION_DIRS not defined. This is OK; we just won't use it.<br />del sys</pre><p>This covers most of the common setup practices I use in a typical Django project.</p><p>&nbsp;</p>
