---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report 24 May 2010 - 4 June 2010
created: 1275663791
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed:</strong> 54.0 sp<strong><br /></strong></p><p><strong>Average Velocity:</strong> 61.7 sp/itr<strong><br /></strong></p><p><strong>Strory Points Completed by Project:</strong></p><ul><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digital-masters/">Digital Masters </a> - 17.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/dwrangler/">dWrangler </a> - 2.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/edc/">EDC </a> - 0.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/ereserves/">Reserves Direct </a> - 8.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/etd/">Electronic Theses and Dissertations </a> - 9.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/findingaids/">MARBL Finding Aids </a> - 6.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/persistent-identifiers-system/">PID Manager </a> - 1.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/trans-atlantic-slave-trade-voyages-database/">Slave Voyages </a> - 8.5</li></ul><p><a href="../../agile-planning-development/agile-reports-and-metrics">See all 2010 Metrics in this spreadsheet</a> </p> <p><strong>Scott's Notes:&nbsp; </strong>Overall another good iteration, things are mostly running smoothly.&nbsp; We had a slightly lower Stroypoint total this iteration due to the Memorial day vacation and some other events like the Staff Awards but by and large we're in our normal range. &nbsp; Some other factors impacting the total is the completing of the dWrangler milestone and returning to planning on a few projects overall as we ether switch project focus or prepare for the next milestone. &nbsp; Elements about working collboratively are still paying off, those are mentioned in the comments by the team below.&nbsp; Also we are still stumbling a bit in terms of planning and communication in a few spots but overall it's working well.&nbsp; </p><p><strong>What  Worked</strong></p> <ul><li>Conscious scheduling of how to split work by developers at the beginning of the iteration improves development by blocking continuous chunks of time, coordinating with other developers and communicating with project managers.</li><li>The experimental "20%" of developers time is proving very critical in learning new skills, discovering new solutions and generally growing our expertise.&nbsp; Many of our XML tools in Django are stemming from that and some current iPhone development work as well.</li><li>Deliberatly approaching upgrading applications is good for growing skills.</li><li>Communications during stand-ups are effective for catching missmatched expectations.</li><li>Using @TODO and other comment conventions is helping to get back to code that needs improvement and generally improves the overall quality of code we're producing. </li><li>Sharing work, collaborative development and all those techniques are really showing a lot of pay-off in our development practices and team.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Last minute planning, changing deliverables and a lack of clarity on current work can sometimes impede progress or cause confusion.&nbsp; Finding a way to both be agile and adapt while maintaining a clear picture is challenging in the process overall and to a large extent unavoidable but when this is significant is can impact the project.</li><li>Ramping up and adapting to new languages, frameworks and tools can be a challenge for developers has a high cost for the project as does changing needs or lack of clarity.</li><li>If developers don't exercise discipline in not straying from user stories and deliverables it's easy to get off-track.</li><li>Project owners losing focus at the end of devolopment on some projects can delay release or closing out of a project.</li><li>Circumventing the planning process in some cases can lend to confusion and can cause a missmatch of expectations.&nbsp; </li></ul><p><strong>What We'll Do Different</strong></p><ul><li>Exercise better self-checks for developers while investigating and learning so as not to get off-track.</li><li>Remind planners that using the process helps everyone stay on track.<strong><br /></strong></li></ul><p><strong>Projects For Next Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>Digital Master [Development]&nbsp; (Ben/Rebecca)</li><li>Finding Aids [Development] (Rebecca/Pete/Jing)</li><li>eReserves [Development] (Sari/Ben)</li><li>Voyages [Testing] (Alex/Student)</li><li>ETD [Testing]&nbsp;&nbsp; (Alex/Sari)</li><li>GHC [Development] (Alex/Sari)</li><li>Rushdie [Software Evaluation] (Pete)</li></ul>
