---
layout: post
title: Planning, REST, and name reuse
created: 1273528386
categories: daily-notes digital-masters finding-aids project-planning uri-design rest
---
<p>Planning and a little mentoring today.</p>

<h3>Digital Masters project planning</h3>

<p>The day started out with a <a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digital-masters/">Digital Masters</a> planning meeting with <a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/accounts/profile/liblna/">Laura Akerman</a> and <a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/accounts/profile/sturnbu/">Scott Turnbull</a>. The meeting started out with some initial discussion confirming the status of the project. In essence, I said that yes, we expect to be basically done with the <a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digital-masters/fedora-infrastructure-euterpe/">first milestone</a> at the end of the iteration next Friday. I mentioned that I needed to review notes with <a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/accounts/profile/rsutton/">Rebecca</a> to confirm that our recently-completed research didn’t create significant new work that could block that.</p>

<p>From there, the meeting broke into a little over an hour of discussions about content models. In previous meetings we developers had pushed for as simple a content model as possible. The <a href="http://fedoracommons.org/confluence/display/hydra/The+Hydra+Project">Hydra</a> project is one example that offers some sensible <a href="http://fedoracommons.org/confluence/display/hydra/Hydra+content+models+and+">content models</a> that we might draw from. Today’s discussion dug into several fundamental <a href="https://larson.library.emory.edu/trac/digitalmasters/wiki/Notes/Content%20Models?version=13">questions</a> about our approach to content models. I was a little surprised, honestly, as I thought most of the questions had largely been answered in previous meetings, but I suppose it points to the difficulty inherent in wrapping not only one head but several around the complex issues involved. I’m not sure if we reached much conclusion on the points either, unfortunately, as we still don’t have a clear document of just how much atomicity to include in our content model. The big point that I hope I was able to communicate effectively is that ultimately it’s the role of our metadata librarians to bring in their metadata modeling expertise, us developers to bring in our expertise in implications for code complexity, and the project manager to decide where to aim our efforts for this project.</p>

<h3>Finding Aids development planning</h3>

<p>After a quick bite to eat, I continued the day by meeting with <a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/accounts/profile/rsutton/">Rebecca</a> and <a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/accounts/profile/phornsb/">Pete</a> about <a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/findingaids/">Finding Aids</a>. The <a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/findingaids/port-to-django/">first milestone</a> is essentially done, modulo a little final checking from MARBL. That left us with some planning for the <a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/findingaids/data-preparation/">second</a>. It was particularly interesting for two big reasons.</p>

<p>First, it really hit me that while we’ve been doing a pretty good job planning out work in enough detail that another senior developer familiar with the project could pick it up and dig in, there really hasn’t been enough detailed documentation for a junior developer—or even sometimes another senior developer unfamiliar with the project—to pick up and start running. Conversations have been hinting at this for a little while now, and last week’s <a href="https://techknowhow.library.emory.edu/announcements/iteration-report-26-apr-2010-7-may-2010">iteration planning meeting</a> partially touched on it, but it really hit home today. And it brought with it reminders of past awkwardnesses where we’ve had student workers trying to help with projects but not really having the context to get in on active development as directly as we might like. It seems to me it all comes down to having some way of clearly communicating architecture and direction. On the one hand more documentation ought to help. On the other, there’s a point past which tons of documentation just means less actual code getting written. I don’t see a clear balance point yet, but it’ll be interesting to explore moving forward.</p>

<p>The second point of particular interest for me was trying to model certain user interactions using URIs. Common REST wisdom would have that URIs ought to be nouns. When we approach problems from a user interface perspective, though, it’s easy to think of them in terms of processes and verbs, and the mapping isn’t always clean. Today, for instance, in the Fiding Aids meeting, we tried to design the URIs for the views we were aiming to implement as part of the <a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/findingaids/data-preparation/">Data Preparation</a> milestone. In particular, in the user interaction we have the concept of some users previewing and publishing content. The notion of a preview display is pretty straightforward, but what does “publish” really mean in RESTful HTTP terms? What URI nouns does it interact with? It was fascinating to me to really get how the mapping to REST isn’t always particularly straightforward.</p>

<p>I didn’t have a clear RESTful model for it off the top of my head, and I’m only just now starting to wrap my head around it. I’m sure once I’ve slept on it it’ll be obvious, so I wanted to note in this post how—even to someone like me who’s pretty well-versed in the principles behind REST—the mapping doesn’t necessarily flow naturally from the UI-framed description. For me, then, behind the immediate question of how to model this particular interaction there’s a meta-question of how to frame these sorts of design processes so that the answers are clearer.</p>

<h3>Digital Masters development planning</h3>

<p>After the Finding Aids planning, Rebecca and I stuck around for some development planning for the <a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digital-masters/">Digital Masters</a> <a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digital-masters/prototype-ingest-editing-euterpe/">prototype</a> milestone. This meeting went off pretty much without a hitch. We came into it with an empty <a href="https://larson.library.emory.edu/trac/digitalmasters/milestone/Prototype%20ingest%20-%20editing%20(Euterpe)">trac milestone</a> and left with task complexity estimates and everything. Of course, we were helped along when we realized that we’d already done the work: It was only missing because the queries populating the page didn’t match the milestone name correctly. Once we resolved that it was a simple matter of confirming that our expectations still matched the original plan. And toward that end we even got to simplify a little by putting off <a href="https://larson.library.emory.edu/trac/digitalmasters/ticket/37">solr</a> <a href="https://larson.library.emory.edu/trac/digitalmasters/ticket/38">support</a>. All in all a very handy meeting.</p>

<h3>Name reuse</h3>

<p>As I came out of my Digital Masters planning meeting, one of the other developers grabbed me with some confusion about Finding Aids work in progress. Seems he was having trouble setting up a custom admin view. See, with Finding Aids we decided that since most of the application data is backed by <a href="http://exist.sourceforge.net/">eXist</a>, we’d make custom admin views for most of the site, relying on Django’s <a href="http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/contrib/admin/">builtin admin</a> only for user management. Unfortunately, we ran into a bit of a pain using django’s default admin alongside our own custom one.</p>

<p>Ultimately the trouble came down to the fact that we were using the name “admin” in three different contexts, with two parallel but different meanings in each. First, we were using it as a URL part, <code>/admin/</code> within the site (we wanted to expose the Django admin at <code>/db-admin/</code> until we wrap it in a custom UI). Second, we’re using the name as a <a href="http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/http/urls/#defining-url-namespaces">Django URL namespace</a>, trying to selectively override the <code>admin</code> namespace for our own admin site without entirely eliminating the regular one. Third, we use <code>admin</code> as a filesystem directory in our Django template path where admin templates live. By default for the default Django admin site, all three of these refer basically to the same concept of an admin site. Perhaps unsurprisingly, trying to override the meaning of the word “admin” for some of these uses but not all of them is a bit confusing. Trying to discuss it with someone without a strong grounding in the distinctions between them was triply so.</p>

<p>I think the lesson there is twofold: First that sometimes software concepts are only as orthogonal as their names. Second that extend-and-reuse can sometimes be much harder than replace-entirely.</p>

<p>Anyway, that’s all the thoughts I have time for today. It’s been an interesting and busy day today. I’m looking forward to actually writing some code tomorrow.</p>
