---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report 26 Apr 2010 - 7 May 2010
created: 1273239411
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed:</strong> 63.5 sp<strong><br /></strong></p><p><strong>Average Velocity:</strong> 56.7 sp/itr<strong><br /></strong></p><p><strong>Strory Points Completed by Project:</strong></p><ul><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digital-masters/">Digital Masters </a> - 11.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digitization-workflow/">Digitization Workflow </a> - 0.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/dwrangler/">dWrangler </a> - 13.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/ereserves/">Reserves Direct </a> - 12.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/etd/">Electronic Theses and Dissertations </a> - 10.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/findingaids/">MARBL Finding Aids </a> - 6.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/trans-atlantic-slave-trade-voyages-database/">Slave Voyages </a> - 9.0</li></ul><p><a href="../../agile-planning-development/agile-reports-and-metrics">See all 2010 Metrics in this spreadsheet</a> - Note that more accurate numbers were updated shifting some of the pie chart values a percent or two.</p> <p><strong>Scott's Notes:&nbsp;</strong> Not a whole lot to say.&nbsp; Things went very well overall. As predicted last iteration, we returned to a normal level of productivty after a pause for planning and switching projects.We continue to look at ways to get better but our process continues to evolve and get better.&nbsp; I'm happy that dWrangler is starting to prove useful for shaping our understanding though I still am unsure what are the best ways to raise awareness and present the information we're collectiong. I expect the forthcoming iteration to show continued productivity improvements as we're continuing foward with work. </p><p><strong>What  Worked</strong></p><ul><li>Tools we've developed to monitor and measure efforts between projects is helping developers split time better.</li><li>General things working well and the flow is going good with our process.</li><li>Well formed user stories really help, particularly for junior developers.</li><li>Hand-off and ramp-ups are going better when developers move between projects.</li></ul> <p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Differences in developer schedules can make coordinating efforts difficult if we arern't using strict version control and task management discipline.</li><li>The challenges of working with stake-holders with diverse skillsets will likely remain but perhaps better scoping could address this issue.</li><li>Poorly written user stories really hurt, particularly for junior developers.</li><li>Having a conprehensive view of project scope and goals is difficult to get in some cases when you're new with a project.&nbsp; Primarly this is due to a lack of higher level technical documentation above user stories.</li><li>Difficulties with swithing languages and such when switching projects continue.</li><li>Difficulties identifying and repersenting tasks that require direct cooperation between Systems and Software.</li></ul><p><strong>What We'll Do Different</strong></p><ul><li>Be more disciplined about our version control and task management discipline.</li></ul><p><strong>Projects For Next Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>Digital Master [Development]&nbsp; (Ben/Rebecca)</li><li>Finding Aids [Testing/Development] (Rebecca/Pete)</li><li>eReserves [Development] (Sari/Ben)</li><li>Voyages [Testing] (Alex/Student)</li><li>ETD [Development]&nbsp;&nbsp; (Alex/Sari)</li></ul>
