---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report 13 Sept - 24 Sept 2010
created: 1285340978
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed:&nbsp;</strong> 48.5 sp </p>
<p><strong>Average Velocity:</strong> 54.2 sp/itr<strong><br /></strong></p>
<p><strong>Story Points Completed by Project:</strong></p><ul><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digital-masters/">Digital Masters </a> - 0.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digitization-workflow/">Digitization Workflow </a> - 15.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/drupal-sites/">Drupal Sites </a> - 7.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/ereserves/">Reserves Direct </a> - 2.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/etd/">Electronic Theses and Dissertations </a> - 2.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/findingaids/">MARBL Finding Aids </a> - 21.5</li></ul><p><a href="../../agile-planning-development/agile-reports-and-metrics">See all 2010 Metrics in this spreadsheet</a></p><p><strong>Scott's Notes:&nbsp; </strong>Most of what I would say is reflected in the bullets below.<strong>&nbsp; </strong>Our average velocity is holding around expected levels given staffing however individually we're striving to see a more even distribution than we currently have though a completely even distrubtion is NOT a goal.&nbsp;&nbsp; We introducted a new staff member to the team this iteration and a student programmer transitioned out so we expect some increase in overall team velocity to occur in the next few iterations.&nbsp; The topic of project planning and development needs being out of sync and it's effect is a reoccuring one and issues with that are reflecting in our overall productivity.&nbsp; I would expect this as new processes are forming and improving on all fronts so some syncronization issues would be expected.&nbsp; Planners and developers should strive to do what they can to keep things postive and productive while thing evolve.</p><p><strong>&nbsp;What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>Developer collaboration continues to be vital</li><li>Direct communication with project owners also continues to be vital.</li><li>Process for training new employees is pretty effective.</li><li>Creating rake and deployment scripts for system use should ease the installation of applications.</li><li>Checking in with each other on dividing work helps keep things in bounds.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Lagging planning can cause development to become unfocused and productivity suffers.</li><li>the difficulties of judgment on when to create a new task for refactoring, extend a task and so forth.&nbsp; It's not so much that it doesn't work as it's difficult.</li><li>Access rights to variouos applications isn't very clear fo new employees.</li><li>Lack of clarity when development time arrives is difficult to work through.</li><li>Representation of planning in the process isn't obvious.</li><li>Splitting time between projects isn't as good as it could be.</li><li>Hard to know how much follow-up we should do with testing.</li></ul>

<p><strong>What We'll Do Different</strong></p><ul><li>Be more disciplined about getting collaborative estimates for stray added tasks.</li></ul>

<p><strong>Projects For Next Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>Finding Aids (Rebecca/Alex/Scott)</li><li>Digital Masters (Ben/Rebecca) [Planning/development]</li><li>Digitization Workflow (Sari) [Small testing and deployment]</li><li>ETD? (Sari/Alex) [Asking for approval]</li><li>Voyages (Alex/Steven)</li><li>Rushdie (Ben/Steven)</li></ul>
