---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report 30 Aug - 10 Sept 2010
created: 1284127035
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed:&nbsp;</strong> 62.0 sp </p>
<p><strong>Average Velocity:</strong> 51.7 sp/itr<strong><br /></strong></p>
<p><strong>Story Points Completed by Project:</strong></p><ul><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digital-masters/">Digital Masters </a> - 11.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digitization-workflow/">Digitization Workflow </a> - 10.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/dwrangler/">dWrangler </a> - 9.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/ereserves/">Reserves Direct </a> - 2.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/etd/">Electronic Theses and Dissertations </a> - 10.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/findingaids/">MARBL Finding Aids </a> - 17.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/persistent-identifiers-system/">PID Manager </a> - 1.0</li></ul>
<p><a href="../../agile-planning-development/agile-reports-and-metrics">See all 2010 Metrics in this spreadsheet</a></p>
<p><strong>Scott's Notes:&nbsp; </strong>The comments reflect much fo what I'd have to say. We continue to build on what has worked for us in the past. We interoduced a new tool to improve our code reviews this iteration and this seems to be highly effective.&nbsp; Next iteration we think we may see some reduced velocity as ETD has wrapped up and Digitial Masters is going back into planning to resolve some dependency issues.&nbsp; The zGizmo item listed below is an investigation of possible updating of the zGizmo PERL script that provides some light web services to our ILS and permission has been asked for development time for this at the request of Systems.</p><p><strong>&nbsp;What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>Same things that have worked continue to work; Working together, exposure to differnt code bases, etc...</li><li>Code review is very helpful for feedback, view into other code bases, alternative strategies and so forth.</li><li>The value of engaged stake-holders as partners in testing and shaping the products is immensily importanat and working very well in the projects that have it.</li><li>The collaborative working environment between developers is bringing them to a place where their natural strengths are overlapping.</li><li>Collaborativly shaping userstories and milestones is very helpful.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Legacy code ramp up, particularly if the design is confusing, can significantly reduce productiviity.</li><li>Things related to the natural growing pains in new projects and as an organization.&nbsp; This isn't critical but we still want to acknowlege that sometimes this can be difficult on everyone.</li></ul>

<p><strong>What We'll Do Different</strong></p><ul><li>On app deployment submit the request for deployment as normal and then the developer should touch base with the SysAdmin to come up with an agreement on what parts we'll assist with on the deployment.<strong><br /></strong></li></ul>

<p><strong>Projects For Next Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>Finding Aids (Rebecca/Alex/Scott)</li><li>Digitization Workflow (Sari/Ben)</li><li>Digital Masters (Ben/Rebecca)</li><li>Voyages Update - (Xin w/ guidance from Alex)</li></ul>
