---
layout: post
title: Planning Meeting for Iteration 26 April 2010 - 7 May 2010
created: 1271428650
categories: reports
---
<p>These are some planning notes for the upcomming Iteration starting 26th April.</p><p><strong>Progress and Status of Projects in current Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>Voyages (currrent in testing):&nbsp; Expected to be in testing next iteration.&nbsp; Launch Date for contribution section is April 30th.&nbsp; Next Iteration expected status: [Testing];&nbsp; Add load testing to the plan.</li><li>ETD (currently planning/developoment)&nbsp; Future planning for RSPH support is stalled and waiting on requirements and feedback from RSPH for their Thesis requirement.&nbsp; Expected Iteration status: [Developmet/Testing]</li><li>Rushdie [Planning] We have been breaking down Rushdie into smaller trac milestones and putting general repostory based tasks into current Repository projects.&nbsp; Expect to start development again on iteration after 26 April ~ 10 May.&nbsp; Expected Iteration status: [Support]</li><li>Digital Masters [Planning/Development] Finding&nbsp; aids deployment has impacted Digital Masters pushing it back a bit.&nbsp; Next Iteration we intend to continue planning on the 2nd Trac Milestone and start Development on the 1st Trac Milestone. Expected Iteration status: [Development/Planning]</li><li>GHC [Testing] This is deployed an in Support.</li><li>eReserves [Development] Continues in development next Iteration.&nbsp; Expected Iteration Status: [Development]</li><li>MARBL Kiosk [new] System will handle this deployment.&nbsp; Expected some light assistance or collaboration with Software.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;<strong>Next Iteration </strong></p><ul><li>Digital Master [Development]</li><li>Finding Aids [Testing/Development]</li><li>eReserves [Development]</li><li>Voyages [Testing]</li><li>MARBL Kiosk [Planning]</li><li>ETD [Development]</li></ul><p><strong>Issues:</strong></p><ul><li>Still examining the advanced planning meeting.&nbsp; Things go well, we'll have to see how it goes over time.</li><li>Tickets for ETD submissions need to be analysed for usability issues to suggest additional developments and improvements.</li><li>New Project is expect for EUCLID to automate the recall process.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p>
