---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report 10 May 2010 - 21 May 2010
created: 1274450576
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed:</strong> 67.5 sp<strong><br /></strong></p><p><strong>Average Velocity:</strong> 58.3 sp/itr <strong><br /></strong></p><p><strong>Strory Points Completed by Project:</strong></p><ul><li>
<a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digital-masters/">Digital Masters </a> - 24.0</li><li><a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/dwrangler/">dWrangler </a> - 6.5</li><li><a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/ereserves/">eReserves </a> - 10.5</li><li><a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/etd/">ETD</a> - 10.5</li><li><a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/findingaids/">findingaids </a> - 9.5</li><li><a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/southern-spaces-practical-matters/">Southern Spaces-Practical Matters </a> - 2.0</li><li><a href="http://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/trans-atlantic-slave-trade-voyages-database/">Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade Voyages Database </a> - 4.5</li></ul><p><a href="../../agile-planning-development/agile-reports-and-metrics">See all 2010 Metrics in this spreadsheet</a> </p> <p><strong>Scott's Notes:&nbsp;</strong> Good iteration overall.&nbsp; Velocity may have been a bit higher but we were performing annual evaluations during this period so the points on dWrangler were lower than expected as I spent most of my time on that.&nbsp; Other projects really picked up though.&nbsp; Nothing to add on my part over what is already noted below.</p><p><strong>What  Worked</strong></p><ul><li>Developers working together continues to bring good results when it does work.</li><li>Communication with project leaders seems to improve when time is divided clearly between multiple projects.</li><li>Skillsharing across projects is continuing to pay off betweeen developers.</li></ul> <p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Not being sure how to deal with blocking issues and how to communicate them.</li><li>We're still developing our discipline when it comes to merging investigation of solutions with estimating and planning.</li><li>Dependency issues with external system can really interfer with development, particularly when it's unclear how to access a system or who to contact.</li></ul><p><strong>What We'll Do Different</strong></p><ul><li>Make sure to note any blocking issues on the frong page of track and communicate it to the project leader.&nbsp; Lastly form form a plan with the appropriate stake holders how to deal with the blocking issue.</li><li>Continue to consider where better user stories can help to improve the process.</li><li>Dependency issues should be addressed as early as possible in the iteration, we should identify date requirements for addressing external dependencies and if these dates are not satisfied we need to take the user stories related to that item out of a milestone.</li></ul><p><strong>Projects For Next Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>Digital Master [Development]&nbsp; (Ben/Rebecca)</li><li>Finding Aids [Testing/Development] (Rebecca/Pete)</li><li>eReserves [Development] (Sari/Ben)</li><li>Voyages [Testing] (Alex/Student)</li><li>ETD [Development]&nbsp;&nbsp; (Alex/Sari)</li></ul>
