---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report 16 Aug - 27 Aug 2010
created: 1282918006
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed: 52.0</strong> </p>
<p><strong>Average Velocity:</strong> <strong>52.8 sp/itr<br /></strong></p>
<p><strong>Story Points Completed by Project:</strong></p><ul><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digital-masters/">Digital Masters </a> - 11.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digitization-workflow/">Digitization Workflow </a> - 12.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/etd/">Electronic Theses and Dissertations </a> - 10.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/findingaids/">MARBL Finding Aids </a> - 18.0</li></ul>
<p><a href="../../agile-planning-development/agile-reports-and-metrics">See all 2010 Metrics in this spreadsheet</a></p>
<p><strong>Scott's Notes:</strong> Not much to add in the way of notes.&nbsp; We're struggling with the usual balance of planning vs productivity and trying to be accurate with estimates in situations where investigation or innovation is needed.&nbsp; Where planners are engaged in testing it seems very effective but this isn't consistant from project to project and there are still situations where we don't find out there is a problem with something until months later.&nbsp; Overall I look at all of that as a sign that generally our process is working.&nbsp; Being in a place where we can make general estimates and know where we've entered a phase that needs exploration, that we have some testing and are uncovring problems (even if it's some time later) is a big step forward.</p>
<p><strong>What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>Rotating projects can keep things fresh.</li><li>Detailed feedback on testing and being very persistant and explicit on testing for Finding Aids was extremely helpful.&nbsp; Same for Reserves direct, providing examples, taking time to test right and so forth.</li><li>Fedora being a central resource, giving developers ample time to work on projects interacting with Fedora is important.</li><li>Scheduling project time across multiple projects as blocks of time instead of back and forth helps keep things focused.</li></ul>

<p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Issues with Boundries between projects can be difficult to manage.&nbsp; Balancing trying to be helpful without requests for time having a disproportionate effect on productivity is sometimes difficult to manage.</li><li>Underestimates are somewhat of a pattern on our part.&nbsp; This is a mix of reasons having to do with infrastructure, not understanding the complexity and so forth.</li><li>We're having trouble defining bug fixes from new features or requests.</li><li>Our documentation needs to be improve, particularly about dependencies to frame them less ambigously so setup is easier.</li></ul><p><strong>What We'll Do Different</strong></p>
<ul><li>Be mindful of spending appropriate time on development planning and detailing of tasks.</li><li>Also be more mindful that we can't go for the "perfect" solution all the time and we should try to keep non-vital growth out of a project.</li><li>Linking dependencies in the documentation back to some unambigous resource to easy setup.</li><li>New User Stories are not to be added to a current development milestone.&nbsp; Instead they should be added to the front page of the projects story.&nbsp;&nbsp; They can only be added to to new milestones and worked on if approved.</li></ul>
<p><strong>Projects For Next Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>Finding Aids - (Rebecca/Alex)</li><li>Digital Masters - (Ben/Rebecca)</li><li>Digitization Workflow - (Sari/Ben/Scott)</li><li>ETD - (Alex/Sari/Xin/Scott)</li></ul>
