---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report 8 Nov - 19 Nov 2010
created: 1290183303
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed:&nbsp;</strong>&nbsp; 48.0 sp</p>
<p><strong>Average Velocity:</strong> 54.0 sp/itr<strong><br /></strong></p>
<p><strong>Story Points Completed by Project:</strong></p><ul><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digital-masters/">Digital Masters </a> - 10.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digitization-workflow/">Digitization Workflow </a> - 0.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/ereserves/">Reserves Direct </a> - 1.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/etd/">Electronic Theses and Dissertations </a> - 5.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/rushdie/">Rushdie </a> - 7.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/smallpox/">Global Health Chronicles </a> - 24.0</li></ul><p><a href="../../agile-planning-development/agile-reports-and-metrics">See all 2010 Metrics in this spreadsheet</a></p><p><strong>Scott's Notes: &nbsp; </strong>Not much to add directly that isn't already reflected in the feedback below.&nbsp; The team is working well together and we're seeing a lot of payoff from our testing and engineering strategies.&nbsp; The successes we're having now highlight some of the difficulties with older code practices.&nbsp; I anticipate the velocity for next iteration will be fairly low given the thanksgiving Holiday.<strong><br /></strong></p><p><strong>What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>Working directly with Systems Personel seems to be very effective when both are troubleshooting, working through problems and planning together.</li><li>Collaboration between developers and helping one another is important in building shared knowlege and synergy.</li><li>As roadblocks came up, developers being able to act on their judgement kept the team productive and adjusting the current focus to available work.</li><li>The shared infrastructure like our Continouis integration server and collaboration is definitly helping catch problems and remediate them quicker with our applications and codbase. </li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>When working on multiple projects on different tech-stacks is a bit difficult for some developers.</li><li>Working with the older codebases or projects from the very early period when our process was forming can be difficult because of lack of documentation, inefficient setups and so forth.</li><li>Limited or shared testing or development environments can cause some conflicts, overlapp and so forth that can make development a bit more confusing or difficult.</li><li>As we have more shared code it's difficult to place the storypoints specifically since it applies to a number of projects.&nbsp; Also accounting for stray tasks not associated with a milestone or release is sometimes confusing. </li></ul><p><strong>What We'll Do Differently</strong></p><ul><li>Make sure people understand there may be difficulties in standing-up older code bases so expectations are reasonable.</li><li>Tasks for common tools that effect several projects should be assigned to the project you were working on that uncovered the bug or problem. </li></ul><p><strong>Projects For Next Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>Finding Aids - (Rebecca/Alex)</li><li>Digital Masters (Ben/Rebecca)</li><li>ETD (Fedora 3.4 migration) (Sari/Alex) </li><li>Rushdie (Ben/Steven)</li><li>DigWF (Fedora 3.4) (Sari/Steven)</li><li>DigWF (Planning for Refactoring) [Scott]</li></ul>
