---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report 7 June 2010 - 18 June 2010
created: 1276872623
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed:</strong> 69.0 sp</p>
<p><strong>Average Velocity:&nbsp; </strong>63.4 sp/itr </p><p><strong>Story Points Completed by Project:</strong> </p><ul><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digital-masters/">Digital Masters </a> - 19.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/dwrangler/">dWrangler </a> - 6.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/ereserves/">Reserves Direct </a> - 16.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/findingaids/">MARBL Finding Aids </a> - 21.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/rushdie/">Rushdie </a> - 1.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/smallpox/">Global Health Chronicles </a> - 5.5</li></ul><p><a href="../../agile-planning-development/agile-reports-and-metrics">See all 2010 Metrics in this spreadsheet</a></p><p><strong>Scott's Notes:</strong>&nbsp; Not much to comment on for this iteration. Things went well for everyone and normal issues of sometimes trying to grapple with clarity or planning exist but this is more a product of normal development than any actual problem.</p><p><strong>What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>Interesting projects make for interesting work.</li><li>Time to work with tutorials on new languages or technologies before developing on a project helps.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Realizing after we begin a task that it is more complex can cause some added pressure in a project.</li><li>Pressure on senior engineers to mentor junior engineers can cause some difficulties in balancing the workload for them.</li><li>Waiting for requirements from external stake-holders can cause blockages on projects, and when you don't know how long the blockage will take to clear you can't effectively move on to other tasks.</li><li>High level development documentation could be helpful with bringing additional developers into a project.</li><li>Early adoption of storypoint estimations can be sometimes unclear and takes some getting used to.</li><li>Investigations are not covered well in storypoint estimations and it inherently is difficult to work with the unknown.</li><li>Knowing when it's appropriate to grow or add user stories is difficult.</li></ul><p><strong>What We'll Do Different</strong></p><ul><li>Check with each other more, bounce ideas off each other and leverage the team in helping with issues.&nbsp;</li><li>When we reach a blockage on external requirements, check up with the strategist on the issue for feedback and if we can't firmly get a time to satisfy the requirements then set some specific time to check back with them (3 days or whatever works) and switch to another development ready project in that time.</li><li>Use the code investigation and bug investigation estimates for tasks we're unclear on, make your best estimate.</li></ul><p><strong>Projects For Next Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>Digital Master - [Development] (Ben/Rebecca)</li><li>Finding Aids -&nbsp; [Development] (Rebecca/Jing/Pete)</li><li>eReserves - [Development]&nbsp; (Sari/Ben)</li><li>GHC -&nbsp; [Testing] (Alex/Sari)</li></ul>
