---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report Mar 29 2010 - April 9 2010
created: 1270822938
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed:</strong> 62.5 sp<strong><br /></strong></p>
<p><strong>Average Velocity: </strong>65.2 sp/itr<strong><br /></strong></p>
<p><strong>Strory Points Completed by Project:</strong></p>
<ul><li>Digitization Workflow  - 2.0</li><li>dWrangler  - 17.5</li><li>eReserves  - 15.5</li><li>ETD  - 1.0</li><li>findingaids  - 16.0</li><li>Persistent Identifiers System  - 1.5</li><li>Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade Voyages Database  - 3.0</li></ul>
<p><a href="../../agile-planning-development/agile-reports-and-metrics">See all 2010 Metrics in this spreadsheet</a></p> 
<p><strong>Scott's Notes:&nbsp; </strong>Overall a good iteration again. &nbsp;&nbsp; The usual suspects are present in both the what worked and what didn't so see the bullets for those comments.&nbsp; We want to try to schedule planning a bit better and have some way to manage when we're being asked to do it as a few developers were drawn primarily into planning sessions or requests. The path we will take is to get an understanding of planning needs from the planning meeting and if additional planning support is asked for at random to consider asking if they can wait until next iteration or work out a convienent schedule.</p><p>Most of our reduction in accomplished storypoints this iteration were due to Ben working almost exclusively on planning issues this iteration.&nbsp; Vacations and sick time also factored into things.&nbsp; </p><p><strong>Mapping Values to Behaviors</strong></p><p>We engaged in a conversation mapping some specific organizational values to pratices we use on the team to continue to build an understanding about what we hope to build here in terms of our work environment.</p><p>Below are some Values and the Practices we use to try to align with those:</p><p><em>Value - Practice</em></p><ul><li>Risk Taking - Prototyping; ~Google 20%; Refactoring to mitigate risk.</li><li>Bold Leadership - Direct involvement with planning; Push advising on best practices and trends.</li><li>Excellence - Documentation;&nbsp; Strong Unit Testing; <a href="http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0020/">Zen of Python</a>; Best Practices Meeting/Code Reviews.</li><li>Accountability - Tracking, not blame; Daily Stand-Ups; Velocity; Storypoints</li><li>User Focused - Impact Statements;&nbsp; The <em>WHY</em> section of a user story; End-User Testing</li></ul>
<p><strong>What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>Giving develoepers time to ramp up on projects and technologies helped position them to address needs better.</li><li>Active developer participation in user testing sessions is very helpful.</li><li>Focusing on use cases with planners on actual user is very helpful in forming Usr Stories and setting priorities.</li><li>Sandboxing, Prototyping and general investigation up front helps development by increasing knowlege during project ramp-up.</li><li>New testing workflow seems very helpful by not dividing developers too much.</li><li>Involving developers in advanced planning helps keep plans accomplishable and more accuratly reflect the effort involved.&nbsp; </li></ul>
<p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Ill defined scopes, poorly defined outcomes and limited resources sometimes hurts innovation or the ability to improve projects by injecting technical expertise.</li><li>Interactions with application support workflow can occassionally make it difficult to respond effectively when needed.&nbsp; This isn't common but when it does come up we recognize our methodology isn't as effective as we would like.</li><li>Lots of concurrent planning significantly eats into time to accomplish work.</li></ul>
<p><strong>What We'll Do Different</strong></p><ul><li>We need to include planning in our division time and resources.</li></ul>
<p><strong>Projects For Next Iteration</strong></p>
<ul><li>Finding Aids (Testing)&nbsp; [Ben]</li><li>eReserves (Development) [Sari/Ben]</li><li>GHC (Testing) [Alex]</li><li>Digital Masters (Planning/Development) [Rebecca/Ben/Alex]</li><li>Voyages (Testing) [Alex]</li><li>ETD (Planning/Development) [Rebecca/Pete/Alex]</li><li>Rushdie (Planning) - [Pete]</li></ul>
