---
layout: post
title: Planning Meeting for Iteration for 25 Oct - 5 Nov 2010
created: 1287499277
categories: reports
---
<p>Update on Projects in Development</p><ul><li><strong>MARBL Finding Aids:</strong>&nbsp; Prodeeding with PID milestone.&nbsp; Development is going well.&nbsp; No Known issues.&nbsp; Next Iteration Coding.</li><li><strong>Eletronic Thesis and Dissertation:&nbsp;</strong> 1.8 milestone went to production.&nbsp;&nbsp; A few bugs have been noted and are being looked into.&nbsp; There is a set of enhancements requested in project prop 133 that is being worked on with a few stray items originally slated for 1.9 that are being worked on as we have an opportunity.&nbsp; Next Iteration Coding.</li><li><strong>Digital Masters:&nbsp;</strong> Progressing on Min Items Milestone and Testing Collection Milestone.&nbsp; Testing should extend into next iteration on Collection and Coding on Min Items Milestone.</li><li><strong>Slave Voyages:</strong>&nbsp; Closing out reload of datasets and waiting on files from project leads.&nbsp; When that is is complete we will wait to hear from planners before working on enhancement #135.&nbsp; Next Iteration small coding for close out tasks.</li><li><strong>Rushdie:</strong>&nbsp; Working to ramp up new developer on project and investigating issue related to access polities for a possible improvement to security and maintainability.&nbsp; Next Interation Coding 2.0.</li></ul><p><strong>Notes on Upcomming Iteration.</strong></p><p>A few small bug fixed on currently in development. </p><ul><li><strong>DigWF:</strong>&nbsp; LSDI project owners are looking into issues related to the OAI records not be harvested in the new system.&nbsp; Ongoing investigation, no request or development need identified yet.</li></ul><p><strong>What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>Requests system is encouraging to have a single spot for this information.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Trying to make lists more clear as to what content is in the request.</li></ul><p><strong>What We'll Do Differnt</strong></p><p>Nothing added.</p><p>&nbsp;</p>
