---
layout: post
title: Planning Meeting for Iteration for 13 Sep - 24 Sep 2010
created: 1283524579
categories: reports
---
<p>notes from iteration planning meeting for iteration 13 Sep - 24 Sep 2010</p><p><strong>Updates on current projects in development</strong></p><ul><li><strong>Finding Aids:</strong> (Susan not present) Testing almost complete on Data Prep milestone. &nbsp;Enhanced Search milestone is ongoing. Next iteration: development.</li><li><strong>Digital Masters:</strong> finished testing Prototype. &nbsp;Expect to finish coding collection milestone this iteration. &nbsp;Dependent on planning, anticipate beginning on Min Items next iteration. &nbsp;Reconfigured release plan is under review. &nbsp;Next Iteration: testing/development.</li><li><strong>ETD:</strong> Progressing well. &nbsp;All required stories for RSPH milestone are close to completion; in very good shape (slightly ahead of schedule). &nbsp;One optional user story for RSPH still ongoing. &nbsp;No immediate work planned after RSPH milestone is completed. &nbsp;Next iteration: testing.</li><li><strong>Digitization Workflow:</strong> Requirements for current work have changed slightly; can't be tested or released until additional work is done. Next iteration: development.</li></ul><p><strong>Upcoming&nbsp;projects</strong></p><ul><li><strong>Rushdie:</strong>&nbsp;Two releases planned; Stacey and Erika will &nbsp;coordinate to get this scheduled.</li><li><strong>PID Manager</strong>: Bug-fix release has been done and scheduled to be pushed to production. &nbsp;Planning is complete on the work needed for Finding Aids and ready to move forward (scheduled as part of Finding Aids).</li><li><strong>OAI Provider</strong>: Laura will work on submitting a proposal for this.</li></ul><p>What worked</p><ul><li>Strategist iteration planning meeting is working; it is especially helpful to have engineers in the room.</li></ul><p>What didn't work</p><ul><li>It is sometimes unclear which meetings are relevant to the current development and which meetings are for ongoing project planning; it can be difficult to determine who needs to be there, and to be sure that the right people will be available. &nbsp;Particularly risky for projects with long-term plans.</li><li>Some project managers are unclear about or struggling with the new process for getting releases scheduled and planned.</li></ul><p>What we'll do differently</p><ul><li>Project managers will discuss how to better manage project planning meetings.</li></ul>
