---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report 18 Jan 2010 - 29 Jan 2010
created: 1264781213
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed: </strong>48 sp </p>
<p><strong>Average Velocity: </strong>35 sp/itr </p>
<p><strong>Strory Points Completed by Project:</strong></p><ul><li>Reserves Direct&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 15</li><li>Rushdie&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 13.5</li><li>Slave Voyages&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 9</li><li>Electronic Thesis and Dissertation&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 7.5</li><li>dWrangler&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1.5</li><li>Digitization Workflow&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 0.5</li><li>Drupal Sites&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 0.5</li><li>EUL/Django Core&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 0.5</li></ul><p><strong>What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>Wrapup and maintenence time helped firm up projects at the end.</li><li>Not being stuck in a single project is good for expanding skillsets and maintaining morale.</li><li>Projects with good planning continue to make clear and consistent progress.</li><li>Developers are doing better about coordinating with each other.&nbsp; </li><li>Collaborative development approaches (pair programming, etc) continues to pay off in distrubuting skillsets and domain knowelege as well as developing better programming skills.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Shifting project needs and iterrupt driven development on some projects can be a bit chaotic.</li><li>We're still struggling how to fit student workers into our agile development process and overall institutional workflow.</li></ul><p><strong>What We'll do Different</strong></p><ul><li>We'll start to use the new Development Plan wiki template in Trac.</li><li>All current projects should have the TracStoryPoints plugin activated and be using the new SpTickeQuery wiki macro for tracking.</li><li>We'll be using the Close Out Tasks section of roadmaps to indicate tasks needed to call a release "done".</li><li>When present students should be brought to the stand-ups. Given the opportunity to report on tasks to get some experience with storypoint reporting.</li></ul><p><strong>Scott's Notes:&nbsp;</strong> We continue to adjust to our new storypoint scale as mentioned in last iteration report and it will take a few iterations to establish a new norm.&nbsp; Overall the same can be said this iteration as with many previous iterations, projects with good planning and focus make the best progress.&nbsp; We are adding some features to our Trac projects to make handoff better between planners and systems in order to more properly close out release plans and know we can move onto the next project.</p><p><strong>Work Assignments for Next Iteration:</strong></p><ul><li>Rushdie (1.5 FTE): Ben (1), Pete(0.5)</li><li>ETD (1 FTE): Rebecca (0.5), Alex (0.5)</li><li>Voyages (&lt;0.5 FTE): Alex (&lt;0.5)</li><li>eReserves (1 FTE): Rebecca (0.5), Sari (0.5)</li><li>DigWF/LSDI/PersistantID Server[unwrap the curfluffle] (0.5 FTE): Sari (0.5)</li></ul>
