---
layout: post
title: Planning Meeting for Iteration 12 April 2010 - 23 April 2010
created: 1270220550
categories: reports
---
<p>Theres are some rough notes for the planning meeting for Iteration 12 April 2010:</p><p><strong>Status of current projects in development:</strong></p><p><strong>FindingAids</strong> - (Development): 53.0 Total Story Points with 47.5 Completed and 5.5 Remaining.<br /><strong>Estimated status next iteration:</strong> Testing<br /><strong>Note:</strong> There are 2 points in an 'investigation' task related to PDFs.&nbsp; It's possible the milestone may grown and take a bit longer. [Ben/Rebecca]<br /><br /><strong>DigWF - </strong>(Testing): 10.0 Total Story Points with 8.0 Completed and 2.0 Remaining.<br /><strong>Estimated status next iteration: </strong>Support<br /><strong>Note:</strong>&nbsp; Expected to wrap.&nbsp; Kyle would like to injest one more book.&nbsp;&nbsp; [Rebecca]<br /><br /><strong>PID Server </strong>- (Testing):&nbsp; 14.5 Total Story Points with 14.5 Completed and 0.0 Remaining.<br /> <strong>Estimated status next iteration: </strong>Support<br /><strong>Note:&nbsp;</strong> This has already been approved and deployed to staging and production.<br /><br /><strong>eReserves</strong> - (Development) : Multiple releases <br /><strong>Estimated status next iteration: </strong>Development<br /><strong>Note</strong>: 2 milestones are in testing and work will begin on Copyright Information Expansion.&nbsp; Two more Milestones need better planning, they currently have no user stories.&nbsp; Planner should get with the developers to work that out.<br /><br /><strong>Voyages</strong> (Development)<br /><strong>Estimated status next iteration:</strong> Testing<br /><strong>Note:&nbsp;</strong> Confused.&nbsp; I need some help on this.&nbsp; Possible additional requirements if GPL lisence needs to be embedded or other requires.<br /><br /><strong>Digital Masters</strong> - Planning/Development<br /><strong>Estimated status next iteration:</strong>&nbsp; Planning/Development<br /><strong>Note:</strong> Planning continues, Current estimates for known tasks are at 22 points.&nbsp; Research on other issues is ongoing and expected to grow.<br /><br /><strong>Global Health Chronicles</strong> - Deployment<br /><strong>Estimated status next iteration:</strong> Testing<br /><strong>Note:</strong> 5 Points are open on the Teaching module and we anticipate these being finished by the end of the iteration.<br /><br /><strong>Anticipated for Next Iteration based on current estimates</strong><br /><br /></p><ul><li>Finding Aids (Testing)</li><li>eReserves (Development)</li><li>GHC (Testing)</li><li>Digital Masters (Planning/Development)</li><li>Voyages (Testing)</li><li>ETD 1.7 (Planning)&nbsp; - Perhaps.&nbsp; Ask for clarity Next week to determine where this fits in.</li><li>Rushdie (Planning) - Breaking current 2.0 release to smaller milestones.</li></ul><p><br /><strong>Discussion on Bug Reporting</strong><br />You should normally enter a 78888 Ticket for systems that are in production as this is the normal bug reporting route.</p><p>If you know the bug is related to the code and completely breaks the appliction talk to the developers or Scott right away.</p><p>If it's not a critical bug then the process is similar to most other development and it's important to realize that bug fixes are like any other work requests in that it needs to be approved, prioritized and secheduled.&nbsp; Summarize the decription of the bug and the impact on the user, create user story(ies) for how the application should behave and when the work is approved it will get worked on and tested like as normal.&nbsp; If work for that project is currently ongoing and the bug fix is small and high enough priority then it's possible this can be fit into current development but be aware how that can effect deliverables and deadlines.</p><p>See our <a href="/development-best-practices/support-ticket-handling">notes on bug reporting</a> from early March for more information.</p><p>Resolving Items</p><p>When possible we should raise issues to be discussed and have a proposed solution for next Planning Meeting.&nbsp; We may want to also ask or assign folks to make recommendations on addressing that issue and propose a solution.</p><p><strong>Next Meeting:</strong> discuss the project planning process between high level planning and trac milestones.</p><p><strong>Some feedback on the current process</strong></p><ul><li>Hard to know how much work will happen in the next week.</li><li>User stories are useful sooner than we currently think.</li><li>How did the Three ETDs on the dashboard relate to the milestones in Trac.</li><li>How can the Dashboard reflect the actual outcome of the meeting.&nbsp; [answer]&nbsp; The actual tab reflects actual but with planning meetings a week ahead of time then we don't know it's really 'actual'.&nbsp; So we will put in Actual values after the planning meeting then check with the actual tab again at the beginning of the iteration to ensure it's reflective of what we're doing.</li></ul>
