---
layout: post
title: Planning Meeting for Iteration for 27 Sept  - 8 Oct 2010
created: 1284734996
categories: reports
---
<p>These are rough notes from the planning meeting for the upcoming Iteration 27 Sept - 8 Oct 2010.</p><p><strong>Update on Projects Currently In Development</strong></p><ul><li><strong>Finding Aids</strong> - Currently in development.&nbsp; Development on current milestone is wrapping up and prep for the next milestone is underway in planning.&nbsp; Next Iteration Finish Dev of Current Milestone and into Testing.&nbsp; Begin dev on next milestone pending approval?</li><li><strong>Digital Masters</strong>&nbsp; -&nbsp; Currently in planning. Collection milestone is being staged to go into testing. &nbsp; Details needed for continued development are being planned and blocks development until finished.&nbsp; Next Iteration Development of Min Items milestone and Testing of Collection Milestone.</li><li><strong>Digitization Workflow</strong> - Currently in Development.&nbsp; With 9 points remaining anticipate finishing this iteration or early next and going into testing.&nbsp; No known issues with currently approved development.&nbsp; Next Iteration Testing.</li><li><strong>Voyages</strong> - A number of tasks have come from the project owners and this is currently going in planning.&nbsp;&nbsp; Next iteration development pending approval?</li></ul><p><strong>Notes on Upcoming Projects</strong></p><ul><li><strong>Rushdie</strong> - Expected to begin development on 2.0 milestone when Steven Anderson begins.&nbsp; Next Iteration Development.</li></ul><p><strong>What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>The fact that we actually know when planning is lagging and and things are out of sync indicates we're improving our level of awareness and coordination overall.</li><li>Ben, Kyle and Rebecca continuations to planning was very useful in moving their blocked issues forward.</li><li>Working up planning needs for the project proposal process gave developers an opportunity to create plans earlier rather than later.</li><li>There is a general feeling that the level of direct communication between developers and planners is correlative to the level of success on the project.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Coordination of development planning between coders and planners didn't get us to a place where upcoming projects are development ready.&nbsp; </li><li>Planning in general is lagging development in some cases.</li><li>Accounting for dependency issues (mostly notably metadata work right now) related to development could be better developed as some of these needs become blockers.</li></ul><p><strong>What We'll Try to Do Different<br /></strong></p>
