---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report 29 Feb 2010 - 12 Mar 2010
created: 1268408502
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed: </strong>57 sp</p>
<p><strong>Average Velocity: </strong>52.5 sp/itr </p>
<p><strong>Strory Points Completed by Project:</strong></p><ul><li>Digitization Workflow&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 2</li><li>Electronic Thesis and Dissertation&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 4.5</li><li>Slave Voyages&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 4.5</li><li>EUL/Django Core&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 5</li><li>PID Manager&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 8</li><li>Reserves Direct&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 8</li><li>dWrangler&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 10</li><li>MARBL Finding Aids&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 15</li></ul><p><a href="../../agile-planning-development/agile-reports-and-metrics">See all 2010 Metrics in this spreadsheet</a></p><p><strong>Scott's Notes: </strong>Generally speaking the same trends we seem to see in the past continue with the major single contributor to project success being the quality of advanced planning.&nbsp; Some projects however are getting better advanced planning and this is uncovering a new layer of complication for us in juggling concurrent new development with sporatic requests that crop up during the close out of previous development.&nbsp; This is the cause of some uncertinty in the planning session and we've agreed to take a look at how to approach this better.</p><p>The numbers for this iteration are not as good as they appear on the surface.&nbsp; ~71% of the productivity for this iteration is concentrated in half of the projects.&nbsp; This isn't entirely an issue of planning as some of these projects have had planning in place for them for some time.&nbsp; As developers some of us need to do a better job with organizing and focusing on tasks at hand.&nbsp; This has been addressed and we'll see how things pick up in coming iterations but attention should be given to the less productive projects to try to help move them along.</p><p><strong>What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>Some projects are getting more advanced planning and this dramatically helps with managing the project portfoilio.</li><li>Communication with systems is improving and they are much more involved in planning for development. This sets everyone up for easier deployment and support.</li><li>When we have clear user stories as part of prior planning, project stake-holders have expressed a much clearer understanding of goals, deliverables and a better overall feel for direction of the project.</li><li>Developers meeting with stake-holders to hash out better User Stories are setting projects up well when going into development.&nbsp; This is particularly effective when this is done several iterations in advance of development commencing.&nbsp; (repeated theme here, the 'just in time' planning is costing us)</li><li>Focused development effort for individual developers for projects they are ramping up on is helpful.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Still some 'just-in-time' planning related to projects.&nbsp; We often get User Stories just before we begin development.</li><li>Acceptence testing and where that fits into retasking, who fits that in and how you manage lag between testing and retasking is causing confusion.</li><li>Expectations of 'on-demand' responce for addition tasking, bug fixes and so forth can cause a breakdown of communication and productivity.</li><li>Long waits for feedback from project owners coupled with last minute responses and expectations of immediate replies back are a problem.</li><li>High cost of revisiting issues because either planning or time was inadequate to do it right in the first place.</li><li>Friday planners meeting doesn't do a great job in teasing out</li></ul><p><strong>What We'll Do Different</strong></p><ul><li>Spend more effort specifically blocking out time for planning with project stake-holders.</li><li>Ask for feedback on how to handle Acceptence Testing and where to put that back into the Queue.</li></ul><p><strong>FTE For Next Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>Finding Aids (1 FTE) [Ben ~ 0.5 FTE, Rebecca ~ 0.5 FTE]</li><li>DigWF (&lt; 0.5 FTE) [Rebecca ~ 0.5 FTE]</li><li>PID Server (&lt; 0.5 FTE) [Alex ~ 0.5 FTE]</li><li>eReserves (1.5 FTE) [Sari ~1 FTE, Ben 0.5 FTE]</li><li>ETD (&lt; 0.5 FTE) [Alex ~0.5 FTE]</li><li>Voyages (0.5 FTE Student) </li><li>Digital Masters (0.5 FTE Dev Planning) [Ben ~0.25 FTE, Rebecca ~ 0.25 FTE]</li><li>GHC (0.5 FTE)&nbsp; [Alex ~ 0.5 FTE, Pete ~ 0.5 FTE]</li></ul>
