---
layout: post
title: Iteration  Report 27 Sept - 8 Oct 2010
created: 1286545686
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed:&nbsp;</strong>&nbsp; 47.5</p>
<p><strong>Average Velocity:</strong> 52.7 sp/itr<strong><br /></strong></p>
<p><strong>Story Points Completed by Project:</strong></p><ul><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digital-masters/">Digital Masters  - 2.0</a></li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digitization-workflow/">Digitization Workflow </a> - 3.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/ereserves/">Reserves Direct </a> - 0.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/findingaids/">MARBL Finding Aids </a> - 25.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/trans-atlantic-slave-trade-voyages-database/">Slave Voyages </a> - 11.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/greatwar/">Great War </a> - 5.5</li></ul><p><a href="../../agile-planning-development/agile-reports-and-metrics">See all 2010 Metrics in this spreadsheet</a></p><p><strong>Scott's Notes:&nbsp; </strong>Most of my generally comments are reflected in the bullets below.&nbsp; As various parts of our overall process for planning and deveopment mature it's understandable that getting them smoothly in sync is challenging.&nbsp; This results in a bit of loss of velocity as team switches context or adjusts to less continuous and fluid project plans or respond to bugs and immediate issues.&nbsp; Overall though our velocity is close to the expected value as the combination of vacations, sick time and so forth in the team resulted in a loss of 6 man days.&nbsp; The expected impact of this would be about 6 story points&nbsp; in velocity loss, our previous average velocity being around 54 sp a loss of 6 would put us at 48 so 47.5 would be almost the exact expected value.&nbsp; There's not much real point in mentioning this other than my constant fascination of the predictability of the system.&nbsp; I expect a velocity next iteration around the mid to lower 50's. <strong><br /></strong></p><p><strong>&nbsp;What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>Checking in with each other on re-estimations is better and seems to work well.</li><li>Knowlege base across the whole group is good and eases transfer of knowledge.</li><li>The documentation we have is useful where it exists and the longer our good practices have gone on the better the knowlegebase grows.</li><li>Pair programming worked very well in getting everyone rampedup quickly.</li><li>Running Sphinx documentation creates easy access to information and provides a lot of flexibility in how we create our documentation.</li><li>Our staging environment is catching big mistakes before it goes to production.&nbsp; </li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Our documentation is still patchy and could be improved.&nbsp; Requirements as well as standards could be improved.</li><li>Extended planning can cause momentum issues, generally reduces velocity and put the focus on theory instead of being able to test working software.&nbsp; Staying theoretical crerates a cycle of debate rather than moving development forward.</li><li>Technological debt from rushed development on the Rushdie project slows initiating new development.</li><li>We could be more disciplined about our documentation formatting for readablity.&nbsp; This is a small issue but worth mentioning.</li></ul>

<p><strong>What We'll Do Different</strong></p><ul><li>In addition to a README in ReST format at the source root there should also be a file named CHANGELOG in ReST format that contains the version changegs as well as Deployment notes.</li><li>Give some thought to our formatting in docmentation so that's it's both parsable by Sphinx and readable at command line for our sysadmins.<strong><br /></strong></li></ul>

<p><strong>Projects For Next Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>Finding Aids (Rebecca/Alex/Scott)</li><li>Digital Masters (Ben/Rebecca/Steven) [Planning/development]</li><li>ETD (Sari/Alex) </li><li>Voyages (Alex/Steven) [Small remaining work]</li><li>Rushdie (Ben/Steven)</li><li>eReserves BugFix [Sari]</li><li>DigWF Testing [Sari]</li></ul>
