---
layout: post
title: Engineering Organizational Capacity, and Toward a Vital Blogosphere
created: 1273167220
categories: efficiency capacity meta
---
<p>Today there was a big staff meeting at work. Xuemao Wang, the library’s Associate Vice Provost, invited all the staff to an open forum to talk about recent problems with growing our organizational capacity to take on necessary projects while continuing to maintain standing responsibilities. Overall my reaction to the meeting is one of appreciation and hope. In particular, though, the meeting both implied a call to action and explicated management support for empowerment of that action. That begs the important question of what action to take.</p>

<p>First, though, a little background. Last year library management reduced our staffing pretty significantly. From reports that I hear from other groups, it sounds like this blew some pretty significant holes in the communication mechanisms and processes that we were accustomed to. From where I sit in the software group, it meant both the loss of knowledge that was concentrated in eliminated staff and a decrease in capacity to take on new software projects. Of course, it didn’t bring a reduction in work. If anything, to my mind it brought the promise of more work, as staff cuts naturally demand greater efficiency, and to a software engineer like me software is a natural way to improve that efficiency.</p>

<p>That brings us to a couple of weeks ago. The stresses of those calls for greater efficiency with reduced staff have been echoing around the staff areas of the library. As I understand it, a recent meeting among leaders within the library brought the matter to a head and asked the hard question of how to provide a sustainable level of organizational capacity with our reduced workforce. The sentiment was expressed strongly enough that Xuemao arranged today’s forum to discuss the matter and to begin a focus toward solutions.</p>

<p>It seems to me that the goal of increased organizational efficiency is not an unreasonable one. Of course, individual groups have already increased their internal efficiency wherever they see the opportunity. For me that raises the question of how we can better see opportunities for efficiency.</p>

<p>Personally, when I’m assaulted on all sides with critical needs, I find it it easy to focus so much on fulfilling those immediate needs that I lose track of the bigger picture and the potential for systemic improvement. I’ve felt myself falling into that trap lately, and from the voices in today’s open forum, it sounds like many staff feel forced into that focus alongside me. I believe the organization suffers from this decrease in perception of the big picture. From my perspective this is a case of the Open Source world’s maxim, <a href="http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/ar01s04.html">“Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow.”</a></p>

<p>So that brings me to this post. Despite the ease with which my nose falls to the grindstone under heavy workloads, I find myself a smarter, happier, and more effective worker when I force myself to stand up and get a bigger picture view. Further, I find that writing blog posts like this one helps me organize those bigger picture thoughts and integrate them into a course of more broadly effective action. Moreover, with enough visibility blog posts stand a chance of increasing dialog and perspective across groups and divisions within the library, and that stands a chance of possibly beginning to examine opportunities for greater interdivisional efficiencies.</p>

<p>Therefore, I’m going to aim to blog more. Specifically, I want to post a bare minimum of one post each week, though I hope to beat that minimum wherever I can. In these posts I hope to address the projects I’ve been working on, but also particularly the issues and inefficiencies I notice as I work. And of course, I hope to highlight ideas for how these inefficiencies might be improved.</p>

<p>Blogs don’t exist in a vacuum, though. We have a huge pool of experience and insight at Emory Libraries, and I hope that my posts might inspire other Library staff to make a similar dedication to examining and communicating the issues and inefficiencies they face in their jobs. Using blogs as a forum for public discussion of ideas and improvements has a growing history in the greater Internet world for motivating and organizing effective change, and I hope that others might join me in that endeavor.</p>

<p>In closing, I hope random netizens stumbling upon this post don’t take my description of the status of Emory Libraries as too dire. Times are tough right now, but the economy has hit everyone pretty hard. I think we’re doing a great job maintaining excellence in the face of those hardships. I hold out faith that we have both the dedication and the fortitude to emerge from this crucible stronger for any troubles we face along the way.</p>

<p>Email me, folks, and let me know what you think. Better yet, set up a blog where we can all read your thoughts and join in effective discussion of our shared goal of making Emory Libraries the excellent place that it has the power to be.</p>
