---
layout: post
title: Planning Meeting for Iteration for 8 Nov - 19 Nov 2010
created: 1288379913
categories: reports
---
<p><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><strong>Updates on projects currently in development</strong></span></p><ul><li><strong>MARBL Finding Aids:</strong> Enhanced Search milestone complete. PIDs milestone nearly complete. Next iteration: testing.</li><li><strong>Eletronic Thesis and Dissertation:&nbsp; </strong>1.8.5 wrap-up work from 1.8 moved to staging. Next iteration: testing.&nbsp; Work available if there are resources available.</li><li><strong>Digital Masters: </strong>Collection milestone testing under way, nearly complete.&nbsp; Min Items progressing. Next iteration: development. </li><li><strong>Rushdie: </strong>2.0 in coding, progressing somewhat slower than expected.&nbsp; Next iteration: development. </li><li><strong>Digitization Workflow:</strong> New updates releaed to production. Pre-planning in progress to identify parts of the project to be ported to python/django. Next iteration: planning.</li></ul><p><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><strong>Immediately Upcoming Projects</strong></span></p><ul><li>&nbsp;<strong>Fedora 3.4 migration:</strong> high-level plan is in place for all three projects; GHC migration will be tackled first, and should be ready for development next iteration.</li><li>May need to pull projects from the grab bag for the next iteration.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>The same things that are working continue to work.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Having two separate planning meetings between software and non-software results in a communication gap between developers, systems, and strategists.</li><li>As the planning approval process improves we're having difficulty matching capacity between requests, planning and programming capacity.</li></ul><p><strong>What We'll Do Differently</strong></p><ul><li>The dashboard now supports entering milestones and upcoming dates; project managers should have their upcoming milestones entered by the next planning meeting.</li><li>Strategists will provide status reports on their projects for iteration planning on the Digital Systems site.</li><li>Try scheduling all projects in one iteration planning meeting.</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p>
