---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report 15 Feb 2010 - 26 Feb 2010
created: 1267211253
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed: </strong>43 sp </p>
<p><strong>Average Velocity: </strong>49.5 sp/itr </p>
<p><strong>Strory Points Completed by Project:</strong></p><ul><li>discoverE&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 0.5</li><li>dWrangler&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 1</li><li>PID Manager&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 3</li><li>Rushdie&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 3</li><li>Electronic Thesis and Dissertation&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 4</li><li>EUL/Django Core&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 5.5</li><li>MARBL Finding Aids&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 6.5</li><li>Digitization Workflow&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 9</li><li>Slave Voyages&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 10.5</li></ul>
<p><a href="/agile-planning-development/agile-reports-and-metrics">See all 2010 Metrics in this spreadsheet</a></p>

<p><strong>Scott's Notes:</strong> The biggest impact on performance this iteration was a reduction in FTE due to planning or close out.&nbsp; Most signifcantly Ben and Pete spent over 1 FTE between them on setting up Rushdie with no storypoints in development.&nbsp; Also my own time was spent almost entirely on planning meaning an effective reduction of 1.5 to 2 FTE.&nbsp; Given that the Completed Storypoint toal of 29.5 is reasonable although a bit lower than we should have seen.&nbsp; Other factors impacting our productivity are tasks creeping in on other projects at the last minute which make the difficult to plan for, and blocks requiring feedback from project planners or external entities as with the OPUS feed for eReserves. Additionally the number of projects we divided our time between was high, particularly given the reduction in available FTE this had significant impact.</p><p>We've become a bit unfocused on the creation of User Stories as well and I spent a significant amount of time this iteration getting with Developers to improve the User Stories across all projects.</p><p><strong>UPDATE 2010-3-11:</strong>&nbsp; The original total complete storypoints for this iteration were missreported at 29 sp and that number has been corrected for the actual value in all reports, including here.</p><p><strong>What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>We're beginning to see common patterns in software needs and build tools around them that benefit other projects and save time and effort to
enable us to do more.  As an example the code created in the PID Manager, Rushdie Project and Finding Aids project all have helped inform or can be directly reused.   We anticipate this will be of great benefit when addressing the needs of the Digital Masters Project as well.</li><li>General previous things that have worked continue to work. Good planning = good progress, collaboration = solid code, etc.</li><li>Improved User Stories have helped focus on satisfying needs and communicating.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Some User Stories are in terrible shape and don't communicate to anyone what we're trying to accomplish in a clear way or are difficult to test and approve.</li><li>Tasks are being put into Active Releases and with no point estimation and there is no way to tell in planning how much work is remaining or it can appear a release is finished when it has open tasks.</li><li>Work seems to be clearly spelled out yet we don't seem to be attending to it on some projects.</li><li>Developers still struggle at times with not having to be the 'only' one on a project in terms of habits.  Letting other developers take over is something we could improve.</li><li>We introduced more strict requirements for Acceptance Testing and everyone is still struggling with fitting that into their work-flow and feedback to developers in a timely way.</li> <li>Follow-up and feedback with planners sometimes it gets stuck and we don't' get feedback until the last minute.</li><li>On some projects persistent side tasks can draw developers off base that could more properly be done by other units.  i.e. Setting up Rushdie Computers, formatting documents and so forth.  Perhaps involving other units earlier in planning would help.</li><li>Hand-off and close outs are still problematic and we could benefit from more active participation from other stakeholders.</li></ul><p><strong>What We'll Do Different</strong></p><ul><li>Touching base with previous developers in a concice way when handing over work.</li><li>Ask project planners to involve reps from other needed units in planning and suggesting who those other units might be where appropriate.</li></ul><p><strong>FTE Assignments for Next Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>Rushdie (1 FTE): Ben (0.5), Pete(0.5)</li><li>ETD (0.5 FTE): Alex (0.5)</li><li>Voyages (&lt;0.5 FTE): Alex (&lt;0.5)</li><li>eReserves (1 FTE): Sari (1)</li><li>PID Server (&lt; 0.5 FTE):  Alex(&lt;0.5)</li><li>DigWF (&lt; 0.5 FTE):  Rebecca(&lt;0.5)</li><li>Finding Aids Initiation (0.5): Rebecca (0.5 FTE), Ben (0.5 FTE)</li></ul>
