---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report 11 Oct - 22 Oct 2010
created: 1287755339
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed:&nbsp;</strong>&nbsp; 54.0 sp</p>
<p><strong>Average Velocity:</strong> 50.0 sp/itr<strong><br /></strong></p>
<p><strong>Story Points Completed by Project:</strong></p><ul><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digital-masters/">Digital Masters </a> - 13.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digitization-workflow/">Digitization Workflow </a> - 1.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/ereserves/">Reserves Direct </a> - 0.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/etd/">Electronic Theses and Dissertations </a> - 11.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/findingaids/">MARBL Finding Aids </a> - 18.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/rushdie/">Rushdie </a> - 5.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/trans-atlantic-slave-trade-voyages-database/">Slave Voyages </a> - 3.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/greatwar/">Great War </a> - 1.0</li></ul><p><a href="../../agile-planning-development/agile-reports-and-metrics">See all 2010 Metrics in this spreadsheet</a></p><p><strong>Scott's Notes: &nbsp; </strong>We're starting to see some return after ramping up of new staff and with being able to do development on projects like Digital Masters.&nbsp; Given the number of absences due to sickness I think we had a slightly higher velocity than I would have expected but this is a good thing.&nbsp; It was commnted below that the way we construct our user stories and the collaborative development techniques we've gotten use to make getting back into development relatively easy.&nbsp; I expect velcoity next iteration to be similar to this one as projects like Digital Masters make more progress but other projects like Digitization Workflow go back into planning.&nbsp; <strong><br /></strong></p><p><strong>&nbsp;What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>Many of the usual things work continue to work, commication etc.</li><li>Taking time for collaborative conversations with stakeholders on projects to help firm up planning recommendations seems helpful in building concensus, uncovering user needs and momentum and enthusiasm.</li><li>Checking each others work, communication, collboration, group enforcement of best practices seems very effective.</li><li>Given the broken up schedules due to sickness/vacation our process enables us to pick things back up quickly and get refocused. </li><li>Having multiple projects to work on gives alternative paths to maintain productivty while clearing other interruptions.</li><li>Generally the processes is fault tolerant and flexible.</li><li>Collaboration on deployment for complex systems works well if all parties have read the deploy notes and are prepared.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work <br /></strong></p><ul><li>Rolling sickness in the team caused some stops and starts.</li><li>Projects with lose needs and agreements are diffcult to manage and it can make everyone unsure if we're actually addressing the problem or need. It also makes projects difficult to maintain and can negatively impact productivity on other projects by bouncing back and forth unpredictably between projects. </li></ul>

<p><strong>What We'll Do Different</strong></p><ul><li>We may want to add an "Other Notes" section to the report to capture other statements that aren't part of the what did/didn't work review.<strong><br /></strong></li></ul><p><strong>Other Notes</strong></p><p>It's worth mentioning that the highly collaborative nature of the team environment can take a bit of ramping up for new employees.&nbsp; It's natural for this to take time and the team should keep this in mind as it moves foward.&nbsp; The process is a good thing but many teams in the industry are not working at this level of collaboration so it can be a significant change.</p><p>Network instability issues caused some delay on development and loss of
productivity.&nbsp; Outside of our control of course but still significant.</p>

<p><strong>Projects For Next Iteration</strong></p><ul><li>Finding Aids (Rebecca/Alex/Scott)</li><li>Digital Masters (Ben/Rebecca/Steven)</li><li>ETD (Sari/Alex) </li><li>Rushdie (Ben/Steven)</li><li>DigWF [Planning for Retooling] (Sari/Scott) </li></ul>
