---
layout: post
title: Planning Meeting for Iteration 19 July - 30 July 2010
created: 1278686572
categories: reports
---
<p>These are rough Notes about planning for the upcoming Iteration 19 July - 30 July 2010.</p><p><strong>Projects in Current Development</strong></p><p><strong>African Origins</strong> - Planning has come together on this project and we're ready to start development.&nbsp; Google Analytics is underway.&nbsp; We're currently waiting on getting the developer access to the subversion repository before other coding can begin. Once this is obtained we can begin development.&nbsp; next week will work with Xin to get user stories and task created and estimated.&nbsp;&nbsp; Next Iteration Development.</p><p><strong>eReserves</strong> - The copyright parts of this application are proceeding well and are current in testing or having bugfixes done and should be ready for deployment on or July 20th.&nbsp;&nbsp; Next Iteration Development.</p><p><strong>GHC</strong> - Small bug fix underway for GHC that might cause adjustments in the dev schedule for eReserves or TAS Module but this should not significant.</p><p><strong>Finding Aids</strong> - Work continues on this and is going well.&nbsp; Finishing up the data prep release and will begin on enhanced search and other features, we expect some of the searching features to be easier than currently estimated and we will likely add PID Manager work into that freed up space.&nbsp; Next Iteration Development.</p><p><strong>Digital Masters</strong> - Latest milestone for prototype forms is being deployed to staging and next milestone is beginning with some addition planning.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Next Iteration testing of current release and begin development of next.&nbsp; </p><p><strong>Upcoming Work</strong></p><p><strong>Staffweb TAS Module</strong> -&nbsp; Additional planning based on Emory HR needs to take place then development can begin.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p><strong>ETD</strong> - Work to implement the RSPH thesis is ready or will be by the start of iteration.&nbsp; Working out priorities on this but likely will be queued up after the TAS brief work is complete.&nbsp; (This bullet added July 13th after an email from Erika)</p><p><strong>Other Notes</strong></p><p><strong>LSDI:</strong> work is under planning and Scott recommends we use the opportunity after the TAS module work is finished.</p><p><strong>eReserves</strong> - We should leave some slack time in the dev schedule around the Fall semester enrollment period ~ Aug 23 for any potential problems with crosslisting or enrollment in eReserves. </p><p><strong>What Worked </strong></p><ul><li>Team based approaches to planning is very helpful in shaping the overall plan.</li><li>Developer flexibility, particularly with changing schedules due to vacation or sick time keep things productive.</li><li>Developer teamwork and flexibly in addressing bugs in a timely fashion is very helpful.</li><li>Distributing knowledge is helpful in developing checks, having more peopel to ask and carrying forward with development.</li><li>Having everyone together to touch base regularly (this meeting) generally works for permeating knowledge out to other teams.</li><li>Mentoring is working overall.</li><li>Taking notes as we meet is helpful to have something to go back to and keep a common understanding.</li><li>New form for submitting proposals is helpful in forming up work, good to have a single place to submit and will likely improve our process.</li></ul><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Not talking to project owners for for system maintenance, upgrades and changes in general.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</li><li>General issues about ownership after development is completed is unclear.</li><li>Testing could be more vigorous and comprehensive.&nbsp; </li></ul><p><strong>What We'll Do Different</strong></p>
