---
layout: post
title: Iteration Report 5 July 2010 - 16 July 2010
created: 1279289200
categories: reports
---
<p><strong>Story Points Completed:</strong> 39.5 sp</p>
<p><strong>Average Velocity:&nbsp; </strong>53.0 sp/itr<strong><br /></strong></p>
<p><strong>Story Points Completed by Project:</strong></p><ul><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/african-origins/">African Origins </a> - 5.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/digital-masters/">Digital Masters </a> - 11.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/dwrangler/">dWrangler </a> - 1.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/ereserves/">Reserves Direct </a> - 7.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/findingaids/">MARBL Finding Aids </a> - 6.5</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/smallpox/">Global Health Chronicles </a> - 2.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/southern-spaces-practical-matters/">Southern Spaces-Practical Matters </a> - 2.0</li><li><a href="https://heisenberg.library.emory.edu/dwrangler/tracback/staffweb/">StaffWeb </a> - 3.5</li></ul>
<p><a href="../../agile-planning-development/agile-reports-and-metrics">See all 2010 Metrics in this spreadsheet</a></p>
<p><strong>&nbsp;Scott's Notes:</strong>&nbsp;&nbsp; Vacations and planning difficulties had the most significant impact on velocity this iteration.&nbsp; Available FTE was down due to vacations from Rebecca and Alex (1 week each - 1.0 FTE total), Pete has moved over to the Core Services Team (-0.5 FTE) and I was pulled up into planning for almost the entire iteration (-0.5 FTE).&nbsp; Reduction of 2.0 FTE with an average velocity around 60 sp/itr and 10 sp per FTE we would estimate a healthy velocity to be around 40 sp, almost exactly what we have.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; So overall, while our total velocity was down, it was in alignment with current staffing.</p><p>Planning was difficult to negotiate this iteration due to several issues that are a mixture of unavoidable circumstances and learning opportunities in how to improve our collaborative efforts.&nbsp; Planning issues took up the time of a couple of developers and my own time was dedicated almost entirely to planning this iteration.&nbsp; We've negotiated the issues we think we can effect and are moving foward but if anyone has any concerns or questions I'd be happy to address them.</p>
<p><strong>What Worked</strong></p><ul><li>Staff coming back from vacation found having the agile process in place very useful in ramping back up after returning. </li><li>Testing workflow for eReserves system worked very well and went very smoothly.&nbsp; Overall there is very good engagement from the project group with testing and this has positioned us very well for releasing the next version.</li><li>Forward planning at the user story and task level enables developers to continue work when other parts are blocked on a project.</li><li>Expressions from other parts of the library the communication, distributed skills, trust in architeture and solutions is working well for stake-holders all seem to work well for everyone and serve the organization well in developing overall excellence.</li><li>Summarizing in a clear way for student workers is very helpful in achieving goals.&nbsp;&nbsp; Particularly the summarization on African Origins.&nbsp; </li></ul>

<p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p>
<ul><li>Hard to get a perspective on overall activity in the middle of an iteration for a developer if they return from vacation or an extended absence.</li><li>Some projects remain meeting heavy and communication can be
confusing or requirements unclear and this impacts productivity as it
consumes a large amount of time from developers and fosters an unproductive dynamic for the project group.</li><li>In some cases late planning and changing details of requirements are significant impediments to progress.</li><li>In some cases role definition, scope definition, prioritization and other elements can cause confusion.</li><li>Difficulties in communicating with exteranal stakeholdes sometimes causes development to pause as we wait for further clarity.<strong><br /></strong></li></ul>
<p><strong>What We'll Do Different</strong></p>

<p><strong>Projects For Next Iteration</strong></p>
<ul><li>Finding Aids - (Rebecca/ Alex)</li><li>Digital Masters - (Ben/Rebecca)</li><li>eReserves - (Sari) [Remaining OPUS feed work]</li><li>StaffWeb TAS Module - (Alex) [Likely closing out soon, small work]</li><li>African Origins - (Xin)</li><li>Voyages - (Xin) [Dataload and some testing]</li><li>ETD - (Alex/Sari) [Planning mostly and whatever development can begin]</li></ul>
