---
layout: post
title: Planning Meeting for Iteration 24 May 2010 - 4 June 2010
created: 1273846123
categories: reports
---
<p>The following are some rough notes on the planners meeting to plan for work in the 24 may - 4 june iteration.</p><ul><li>Digital Master [Development]&nbsp; (Ben/Rebecca)&nbsp; Progressing as expected.&nbsp; Will finish the first milestone by the end of this iteration and should begin on the next.&nbsp; Next Iteration Testing of current milestone, Development of next. </li><li>Finding Aids [Testing/Development] (Rebecca/Pete)&nbsp; Development has begun on the next milestone and at 34 points this should be slightly over 3 iterations ~6 weeks.&nbsp; Next Iteration Development.</li><li>eReserves [Development] (Sari/Ben)&nbsp;&nbsp; Progressing well, finishing up the latest milestone and beginning the next which should take approximatly 2 iterations ~ 4 weeks.&nbsp; Next Iteration Testing of previous milestone and development of Nextt.</li><li>Voyages [Testing] (Alex/Student)&nbsp; -&nbsp; Development continues with difficulties in capping additonial requests.&nbsp; We will continue with development through to completion by the end of this iteration.&nbsp; Next iteration Testing.</li><li>ETD [Development]&nbsp;&nbsp; (Alex/Sari)&nbsp; - Progressing somewhat slowly with 5.5 remaining storypoints there is approximatly 1 iteration left in development ~ 2 weeks.&nbsp; Next Iteration Development.</li></ul><p><strong>What Worked</strong></p><p><strong>What Didn't Work</strong></p><ul><li>Working trough our process for dashboard and how to best use it.</li><li>General scope creep issues persist and so forth.</li></ul><p><strong>What We'll Do Different</strong></p><p><strong>Other Notes</strong></p><ul><li>Systems will be performing upgrades and general maintanance on most of our servers. </li><li>Document distributed with a schedule for server reboot and recycling.</li><li>There are some expectations that some services may not reboot or recycle properly and there could be some service interruption.&nbsp; </li></ul>
