---
layout: post
title: 'DH2012: LP 28, July 20 - Email Archives, Recognizing Thought and Speech Representation,
  and Author Analysis'
created: 1345220247
categories:
- dh2012
---
<p>A presentation on a tool to work with email archives, and two papers on text analysis: one testing out methods for automated recognition of speech and thought representation; and another testing the value of a proposed feature for authorship analysis, based on language around the use of names.</p><hr width="100%" /><p><strong><a name="email-archives"></a>Processing Email Archives in Special Collections</strong>&nbsp;- Sudheendra Hangal (view&nbsp;<a href="http://www.dh2012.uni-hamburg.de/conference/programme/abstracts/processing-email-archives-in-special-collections/">abstract</a>,&nbsp;<a href="http://lecture2go.uni-hamburg.de/konferenzen/-/k/14031">video of the presentation</a>)</p><p>Hangal presented on <a href="http://mobisocial.stanford.edu/muse/">MUSE</a>, a program to browse, visualize, and mine long-term email archives which has been developed at Stanford over the last 2-3 years. Hangal spent a few moments explaining why email is such an interesting and fruitful area to be working on: there is mainstream, broad spread usage - 2.1 billion users, 3.3 billion accounts; email provides a consistent record, content is long-lived and has an open, federated architecture; it is easy to capture and preserve; and it is portable and light-weight. &nbsp;Email is an interesting phenomenon, and some people have had email for many years (for example, faculty at universities have been using email for 30+ years). &nbsp;As archives and libraries are increasingly&nbsp;collecting&nbsp;born-digital collections, email is being captured and preserved, but less work has been done for processing and delivery. &nbsp;Hangal says that the stakeholders for their project team include donors, curators, archivists, as well as researchers.</p><p>Hangal explains that they started working with the <a href="http://www-sul.stanford.edu/depts/hasrg/ablit/amerlit/creeley.html">papers of Robert Creeley</a>, which are included&nbsp;in&nbsp;<a href="http://www-sul.stanford.edu/">Sulair</a>; these materials include more than 80,000 emails, but with lots of duplication. &nbsp;Some of the challenges of working with this content is that it is mostly unstructured, and that there is such a large volume; there is also a great diversity within the content (emails about meetings, one-sentence questions, mixed with longer messages), which makes it hard to explore.</p><p>Hangal then went into more detail, demonstrating MUSE ("Memories Using Email"). &nbsp;The tool supports open formats like mbox and can talk to servers using standard protocols (IMAP, POP); email in other formats have to be converted before they can be imported into MUSE. &nbsp;He noted that folder-based organization of email tends to be inconsistent over time, so MUSE provides other ways to organize and access the content; it generates a kind of "social topology" by inferring communication groups of correspondents, and allows users to organize and display email by group. &nbsp;It also provides a "monthly card" interface with named entities, color-coded and organized by date, which he hopes may be useful to researchers, so they at least have an idea where to start looking. &nbsp;There are time-based metrics for when names&nbsp;emerge&nbsp;in the messages, as well as sentiment analysis based on a "personal lexicon" they developed to identify life events, family, etc., which the team hopes will be useful for identifying sensitive information and may also be interesting for researchers. &nbsp;For fun, Hangal also created a crossword puzzle view that is auto-generated based on sentences in the archive. &nbsp;Browsing emails in a category has a dial-like interface which Hangal compares to the experience of flipping through a book&nbsp;in a&nbsp;bookstore. &nbsp;Hangal also demonstrated a browser plugin that makes it possible to connect a Wikipedia page to the email archive (e.g., names mentioned on the Wikipedia page for Robert Creeley link to emails from and to those people in the archive).</p><hr width="100%" /><p><strong>Automatic Recognition of Speech, Thought, and Writing Representation in German Narrative Text</strong>&nbsp;- Annelen Brunner (view&nbsp;<a href="http://www.dh2012.uni-hamburg.de/conference/programme/abstracts/automatic-recognition-of-speech-thought-and-writing-representation-in-german-narrative-texts/">abstract</a>,&nbsp;<a href="http://lecture2go.uni-hamburg.de/konferenzen/-/k/14032">video of the presentation</a>)</p><p>Brunner presented on her work to explore automatic methods for identifying narrative devices in texts. She went into detail on her process of manually marking up a small selection of short texts by different authors and then testing two different automated approaches. &nbsp;Her findings indicate that the rule-based methods were more correct, but that the machine-learning approach had better correlations. &nbsp;The automatic recognition she's getting at this point is not that great, but it might be useful for specific, targeted purposes; for instance, it might be useful to track changes in the representations of thought over time, but her findings&nbsp;would&nbsp;need to be confirmed on another corpus. &nbsp;Brunner got some encouraging feedback from commenters, suggesting that her work is promising and interesting; my notes are quite brief (I'm pretty sure conference-fatigue was setting in by this point), so take a look at the abstract or the video for more details.</p><hr width="100%" /><p><strong>Characterizing Authorship Style using Linguistic Features</strong>&nbsp;- Ana Lucic, Catherine Blake (view&nbsp;<a href="http://www.dh2012.uni-hamburg.de/conference/programme/abstracts/characterizing-authorship-style-using-linguistic-features/">abstract</a>,&nbsp;<a href="http://lecture2go.uni-hamburg.de/konferenzen/-/k/14033">video of the presentation</a>)</p><p>Lucic presented on her work with Blake to test a new feature that she is proposing may be useful for authorship attribution. &nbsp;In particular, she is examining grammatical structures around named entities, such as person names, and looking at both predictive performance as well as potential insight into authorial style. &nbsp;For this project, they used a subset of IMDB movie reviews that were harvested in 2009; 1,000 reviews by 62 authors. &nbsp;Their predictive results are actually quite promising, especially considering the amount of text they are throwing away, and stylistic analysis indicates that authors do show a preference for particular constructions when using names. &nbsp;Commenters responded to this presentation well also, suggesting that Blake and Lucic may well be onto something. &nbsp;One person questioned their choice of dataset, since because of the subject matter IMDB reviews will naturally have lots of personal names, and this could skew the results; Blake responded that other entities, such as place-names, could be used as well, and that they simply chose to focus on the names because of the content they were working with. &nbsp;As with the last paper, my notes here are quite brief, so if you're interested in more details about the approach or findings here, I recommend you take a look at the abstract and video.</p>
