---
layout: post
title: "OR2016: Second 24x7 session"
date: 2016-06-15T16:04:59-04:00
tags:
    - OR2016
---

Notes on the [second 24x7 session](https://www.conftool.com/or2016/index.php?page=browseSessions&form_session=117).
I don't have detailed notes on every presentation, so do take a look at the session abstracts for the ones I missed.

## Creating Annotated Editions from Repository Content

My presentation on [Readux](http://readux.library.emory.edu) annotated editions.  [Presentation slides](http://rlskoeser.github.io/presentations/2016/OR-readux-annotated-editions.pdf) (PDF).

## Linked Data for Libraries (LD4L): Data, Tools, and Discovery

**Dean B Krafft**

LD4L Labs working on new MARC to BIBFRAME converter; new editing tools, Hydra-based tools.

LD4P: six partners with specific projects.

Nine challenges that linked data poses:

 - think outside the bibliographic record: you have a network, not a record
 - Connect to external resources for additional context to aid discovery and understanding
 - avoid being limited to questions anticipated when the repository was created: extensible, powerful querying
 - think about how others outside of the library can take advantage of the data represented in your repository
 - how can LD upport connected objects distributed across multile repositories (e.g. IIIF stitching manuscripts back together)
 - enhance connections between repositories and traditional controlled authorities; identifier management, local URIs
 - support international and multi-lingual applications
 - make your repository content more discoverable

[ld4l.org](http://ld4l.org)

## Search Technology Made Simple The ICPSR Search Plugin

**Dean B Krafft**

Searching and interacting with data across different archives.

Search plugin by Archonnex, using Solr index.  Configurable, embeddable UI plugin.

OpenICPSR to be released July 2016.

## HYDRAte your team: Committing people alongside code

**Geoff Harder, Sonya Betz**

Align strategy with resources.  Far too common to appoint a librarian as a repository management and leave them to their own devices.

You need a healthy cross-section of staff that represent the many perspectives of users. Large teams could make things more difficult to coordinate and slow to move forward, but doesn't have to be.  Investing in people always pay off.

## Developing a Data Vault

**Mary McDerby, Stuart Lewis, Thomas Higgins, Lorraine Beard, Claire Knowles, Robin Taylor**

Research data management - planning, infrastructure, stewardship.  What do you with data you can't share?  Need a way to keep it, protect it, review it later.  DataVault - analogy to bank vault or deep freezer.  Sits between storage and access; not the storage itself, but an interface with a RESTful API.  Review date is based on retention policy chosen by the user who deposits the data.

## Old Cats, New Tricks

*Sinéad A. Keogh*

Transforming a traditional team into using modern library technologies: use tools that do a lot of the work for you, send staff to be trained and come back to train the rest of the team.  They've written a manual to preserve knowdlege, and everybody knows what the expertise is of others on the team so they know who to ask or lean on for something else.

## FABB Repository. Restoration and enhancement of popular culture objects

**Giancarlo Birello, Anna Perin**

Intangibles of the culture are important for cultural heritage and study of certain things, such as food ("feast or famine").  Collecting and preserving non-homogeneous content for interdisciplinary reading and interpretation.  Conveying emotions sought by cultural tourists via insider awareness, make the local flavor available to outsiders.

## Zen and the art of repository maintenance

**Kim Pham, Lydia Zvyagintseva**

Project manager on grant or one-time finding for a new idea.  Launch something, people start to use it and want more features, and it gets more complicated.  Eventually project loses funding, and either dies a slow or death or a quick one.  May end up taking care of lots and lots of boutique applications, and the product owners don't want to let them go.

Innovation is well supported, but what happens after innovation?  Operations is 60-80% of project cost, so why do we overlook this in the planning stage?  Maybe this is because we know things will change, new challenges and new technology solutions.  We should come up with strategies for maintenance and technical debt from the beginning.  Preventive maintenance could have a long-term impact on maintenance.

Maintenance is gaining recognition as an area of study in academia; maintainers conference.  Not just means but ends, no longer privileging innovation over maintenance.

## Let there be (En)Light(en): Building a repository brand at the University of Glasgow

**William J. Nixon**

Open Repository is not a great name for pitching things to the outside world.  Coming up with a brand, vision and values that communicates to your users.  Memorable, easy to type and find content.  Aligning web look and feel so that it isn't jarring moving from things like faculty profile pages into the repository; cross-plaform responsive design.

## Illuminating the research workflow in High-Energy Physics to enable reproducibility

**Suenje Dallmeier-Tiessen, Anxhela Dani, Javier Delgado Fernandez, Pamfilos Fokianos, Patricia Herterich, Tibor Simko**

CERN Analysis Preservation.  Preserve all the many research data outputs generated by HEP work.